# Unrecoverable Errors with `panic!`
Sometimes, bad things happen in your code, and there’s nothing you can do about it. In these cases, Rust has the `panic!` macro. There are two ways to cause a panic in practice:
* by taking an action that causes our code to panic (such as accessing an array past the end),
* or by explicitly calling the `panic!` macro.

In both cases, we cause a panic in our program. By default, these panics will print a failure message, unwind, clean up the stack, and quit.

Via an environment variable, you can also have Rust display the call stack when a panic occurs to make it easier to track down the source of the panic.

> ##### Unwinding the Stack or Aborting in Response to a Panic
> By default, when a panic occurs, the program starts *unwinding*, which means Rust walks back up the stack and cleans up the data from each function it encounters. However, this walking back and cleanup is a lot of work. Rust, therefore, allows you to choose the alternative of immediately *aborting*, which ends the program without cleaning up.
>
> Memory that the program was using will then need to be cleaned up by the operating system. If in your project you need to make the resulting binary as small as possible, you can switch from unwinding to aborting upon a panic by adding `panic = 'abort'` to the appropriate `[profile]` sections in your *Cargo.toml* file. For example, if you want to abort on panic in release mode, add this:
> ```toml
> [profile.release]
> panic = 'abort'
> ```

Let’s try calling `panic!` in a simple program:
```rust
fn main() {
    panic!("crash and burn");
}
```
When you run the program, you’ll see something like this:
```bash
   Compiling panic v0.1.0 (file:///projects/panic)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.25s
     Running `target/debug/panic`
thread 'main' panicked at 'crash and burn', src/main.rs:2:5
note: run with `RUST_BACKTRACE=1` environment variable to display a backtrace
```

# Using a `panic!` Backtrace
Let’s look at another example to see what it’s like when a `panic!` call comes from a library because of a bug in our code instead of from our code calling the macro directly:
```rust
fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3];
    v[99];
}
```

> In C, attempting to read beyond the end of a data structure is undefined behavior. You might get whatever is at the location in memory that would correspond to that element in the data structure, even though the memory doesn’t belong to that structure. This is called a *buffer overread* and can lead to security vulnerabilities if an attacker is able to manipulate the index in such a way as to read data they shouldn’t be allowed to that is stored after the data structure.

To protect your program from this sort of vulnerability, if you try to read an element at an index that doesn’t exist, Rust will stop execution and refuse to continue. Let’s try it and see:
```rust
   Compiling panic v0.1.0 (file:///projects/panic)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.27s
     Running `target/debug/panic`
thread 'main' panicked at 'index out of bounds: the len is 3 but the index is 99', src/main.rs:4:5
note: run with `RUST_BACKTRACE=1` environment variable to display a backtrace
```

The next note line tells us that we can set the `RUST_BACKTRACE` environment variable to get a backtrace of exactly what happened to cause the error. A backtrace is a list of all the functions that have been called to get to this point. Backtraces in Rust work as they do in other languages: the key to reading the backtrace is to start from the top and read until you see files you wrote. That’s the spot where the problem originated. The lines above that spot are code that your code has called; the lines below are code that called your code. These before-and-after lines might include core Rust code, standard library code, or crates that you’re using. Let’s try getting a backtrace by setting the `RUST_BACKTRACE` environment variable to any value except `0`:
```bash
$ RUST_BACKTRACE=1 cargo run
thread 'main' panicked at 'index out of bounds: the len is 3 but the index is 99', src/main.rs:4:5
stack backtrace:
   0: rust_begin_unwind
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/std/src/panicking.rs:584:5
   1: core::panicking::panic_fmt
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/core/src/panicking.rs:142:14
   2: core::panicking::panic_bounds_check
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/core/src/panicking.rs:84:5
   3: <usize as core::slice::index::SliceIndex<[T]>>::index
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/core/src/slice/index.rs:242:10
   4: core::slice::index::<impl core::ops::index::Index<I> for [T]>::index
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/core/src/slice/index.rs:18:9
   5: <alloc::vec::Vec<T,A> as core::ops::index::Index<I>>::index
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/alloc/src/vec/mod.rs:2591:9
   6: panic::main
             at ./src/main.rs:4:5
   7: core::ops::function::FnOnce::call_once
             at /rustc/e092d0b6b43f2de967af0887873151bb1c0b18d3/library/core/src/ops/function.rs:248:5
note: Some details are omitted, run with `RUST_BACKTRACE=full` for a verbose backtrace.
```