# Accessing or Modifying a Mutable Static Variable

In this book, we’ve not yet talked about *global variables*, which Rust does support but can be problematic with Rust’s ownership rules. If two threads are accessing the same mutable global variable, it can cause a data race.

In Rust, global variables are called ***static*** variables. The following shows an example declaration and use of a static variable with a string slice as a value:

```rust
static HELLO_WORLD: &str = "Hello, world!";
fn main() {
    println!("name is: {}", HELLO_WORLD);
}
```

* Static variables can only store references **with the `'static` lifetime**, which means the Rust compiler can figure out the lifetime and we aren’t required to annotate it explicitly. Accessing an immutable static variable is safe.
* Static variables are similar to constants. A subtle difference between constants and immutable static variables is that values in a **static variable have a fixed address in memory**. Using the value will always access the same data. Constants, on the other hand, are allowed to duplicate their data whenever they’re used.
* Another difference is that **static variables can be mutable**. Accessing and modifying mutable static variables is *unsafe*.

```rust
static mut COUNTER: u32 = 0;

fn add_to_count(inc: u32) {
    unsafe {
        COUNTER += inc;
    }
}

fn main() {
    add_to_count(3);
    unsafe {
        println!("COUNTER: {}", COUNTER);
    }
}
```

```TXT
COUNTER: 3
```

* As with regular variables, we specify mutability using the `mut` keyword. Any code that reads or writes from `COUNTER` must be within an `unsafe` block. This code compiles and prints `COUNTER: 3` as we would expect because it’s single threaded. Having multiple threads access `COUNTER` would likely result in **data races**.

* With mutable data that is globally accessible, it’s difficult to ensure there are no data races, which is why Rust considers mutable static variables to be unsafe. Where possible, it’s preferable to use the concurrency techniques and thread-safe smart pointers we discussed previously so the compiler checks that data accessed from different threads is done safely.