
# Packages
A *package* is a bundle of one or more crates that provides a set of functionality. A package contains a `Cargo.toml` file that describes how to build those crates. Cargo is actually a package that contains the binary crate for the command-line tool you’ve been using to build your code. The Cargo package also contains a library crate that the binary crate depends on. Other projects can depend on the Cargo library crate to use the same logic the Cargo command-line tool uses.

> A package can contain as many binary crates as you like, but at most only one library crate. A package must contain at least one crate, whether that’s a library or binary crate.

# Example
Let’s walk through what happens when we create a package. First, we enter the command `cargo new`:
```bash
$ cargo new my-project
     Created binary (application) `my-project` package
$ ls my-project
Cargo.toml
src
$ ls my-project/src
main.rs
```
After we run `cargo new`, we use `ls` to see what Cargo creates. In the project directory, there’s a `Cargo.toml` file, giving us a package. There’s also a `src` directory that contains `main.rs`. Open `Cargo.toml` in your text editor, and note there’s no mention of `src/main.rs`. Cargo follows a convention that `src/main.rs` is the crate root of a binary crate with the same name as the package. 

Likewise, Cargo knows that if the package directory contains `src/lib.rs`, the package contains a library crate with the same name as the package, and `src/lib.rs` is its crate root. Cargo passes the crate root files to rustc to build the library or binary.

* Here, we have a package that only contains `src/main.rs`, meaning it only contains a binary crate named `my-project`. 
* If a package contains `src/main.rs` and `src/lib.rs`, it has two crates: a binary and a library, both with the same name as the package. 
* A package can have multiple binary crates by placing files in the `src/bin` directory: each file will be a separate binary crate.
