# Defining Modules to Control Scope and Privacy
In this section, we’ll talk about **modules** and other parts of the module system, namely **paths** that allow you to name items; the `use` keyword that brings a path into scope; and the `pub` keyword to make items public. We’ll also discuss the as keyword, external packages, and the glob operator.

## Modules Cheat Sheet
Here we provide a quick reference on how modules, paths, the use keyword, and the pub keyword work in the compiler, and how most developers organize their code.

* **Start from the crate root**: When compiling a crate, the compiler first looks in the crate root file (usually `src/lib.rs` for a library crate or `src/main.rs` for a binary crate) for code to compile.
* **Declaring modules**: In the crate root file, you can declare new modules; say, you declare a “garden” module with `mod garden;`. The compiler will look for the module’s code in these places:
  * Inline, within curly brackets that replace the semicolon following `mod garden`
  * In the file `src/garden.rs`
  * In the file `src/garden/mod.rs`
* **Declaring submodules**: In any file other than the crate root, you can declare submodules. For example, you might declare `mod vegetables;` in `src/garden.rs`. The compiler will look for the submodule’s code within the directory named for the parent module in these places:
  * Inline, directly following mod vegetables, within curly brackets instead of the semicolon
  * In the file `src/garden/vegetables.rs`
  * In the file `src/garden/vegetables/mod.rs`
* **Paths to code in modules**: Once a module is part of your crate, you can refer to code in that module from anywhere else in that same crate, as long as the privacy rules allow, using the *path* to the code. For example, an `Asparagus` type in the garden vegetables module would be found at `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`.
* **Private vs public**: Code within a module is private from its parent modules by default. To make a module public, declare it with `pub mod` instead of `mod`. To make items within a public module public as well, use `pub` before their declarations.
* **The `use` keyword**: Within a scope, the `use` keyword creates shortcuts to items to reduce repetition of long paths. In any scope that can refer to `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`, you can create a shortcut with use `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`; and from then on you only need to write `Asparagus` to make use of that type in the scope.

# Grouping Related Code in Modules
**Modules** let us organize code within a crate for readability and easy reuse. Modules also allow us to control the privacy of items, **because code within a module is private by default**. Private items are internal implementation details not available for outside use. We can choose to make modules and the items within them public, which exposes them to allow external code to use and depend on them.

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}
        fn seat_at_table() {}
    }

    mod serving {
        fn take_order() {}
        fn serve_order() {}
        fn take_payment() {}
    }
}
```
* **Inside modules, we can place other modules**. Modules can also hold definitions for other items, such as structs, enums, constants, traits, and functions.

> By using modules, we can group related definitions together and name why they’re related. Programmers using this code can navigate the code based on the groups rather than having to read through all the definitions, making it easier to find the definitions relevant to them. Programmers adding new functionality to this code would know where to place the code to keep the program organized.

Earlier, we mentioned that `src/main.rs` and `src/lib.rs` are called crate roots. The reason for their name is that the contents of either of these two files will build a module named `crate` at the root of the crate’s module structure, known as the **module tree**:
```bash
crate
 └── front_of_house
     ├── hosting
     │   ├── add_to_waitlist
     │   └── seat_at_table
     └── serving
         ├── take_order
         ├── serve_order
         └── take_payment
```
* This tree shows how some of the modules nest inside one another; for example, `hosting` nests inside `front_of_house`. The tree also shows that some modules are siblings to each other, meaning they’re defined in the same module; `hosting` and `serving` are siblings defined within `front_of_house`. If module A is contained inside module B, we say that module A is the child of module B and that module B is the parent of module A. Notice that the entire module tree is rooted under the implicit module named `crate`.

> The module tree might remind you of the filesystem’s directory tree on your computer; this is a very apt comparison! Just like directories in a filesystem, you use modules to organize your code. And just like files in a directory, we need a way to find our modules.