# Paths for Referring to an Item in the Module Tree
To show Rust where to find an item in a module tree, we use a **path** in the same way we use a path when navigating a filesystem. To call a function, we need to know its path.

A path can take two forms:
* An **absolute path** is the full path starting from a crate root; for code from an external crate, the absolute path begins with the crate name, and for code from the current crate, it starts with the literal `crate`.
* A **relative path** starts from the current module and uses `self`, `super`, or an identifier in the current module.

Both absolute and relative paths are followed by one or more identifiers separated by double colons (`::`).

The following code will NOT compile, but let us see how to use path correctly first:
```rust
mod front_of_house {
    mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    // Absolute path
    crate::front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
    // Relative path
    front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```

> Choosing whether to use a relative or absolute path is a decision you’ll make based on your project, and depends on whether you’re more likely to move item definition code separately from or together with the code that uses the item.

> For example, if we move the `front_of_house` module and the `eat_at_restaurant` function into a module named `customer_experience`, we’d need to update the absolute path to `add_to_waitlist`, but the relative path would still be valid. However, if we moved the `eat_at_restaurant` function separately into a module named dining, the absolute path to the `add_to_waitlist` call would stay the same, but the relative path would need to be updated.

> Our preference in general is to specify absolute paths because it’s more likely we’ll want to move code definitions and item calls independently of each other.

# Accessibility in Modules
As we mentioned, the previous code block will not compile and the error is shown as below:
```bash
error[E0603]: module `hosting` is private
 --> src/lib.rs:9:28
  |
9 |     crate::front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
  |                            ^^^^^^^ private module
  |
note: the module `hosting` is defined here
 --> src/lib.rs:2:5
  |
2 |     mod hosting {
  |     ^^^^^^^^^^^

error[E0603]: module `hosting` is private
  --> src/lib.rs:12:21
   |
12 |     front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
   |                     ^^^^^^^ private module
   |
note: the module `hosting` is defined here
  --> src/lib.rs:2:5
   |
2  |     mod hosting {
   |     ^^^^^^^^^^^
```
* The error messages say that module `hosting` is private. In other words, we have the correct paths for the `hosting` module and the `add_to_waitlist` function, but Rust won’t let us use them because it doesn’t have access to the private sections. 

> In Rust, all items (functions, methods, structs, enums, modules, and constants) are private to parent modules by default. If you want to make an item like a function or struct private, you put it in a module.

**Items in a parent module can’t use the private items inside child modules, but items in child modules can use the items in their ancestor modules**. This is because child modules wrap and hide their implementation details, but the child modules can see the context in which they’re defined. 

> To continue with our metaphor, think of the privacy rules as being like the back office of a restaurant: what goes on in there is private to restaurant customers, but office managers can see and do everything in the restaurant they operate.

Rust does give you the option to expose inner parts of child modules’ code to outer ancestor modules by using the `pub` keyword to make an item public.

## Exposing Paths with the `pub` Keyword
```rust
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        pub fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}
```
Now the code will compile!
> ##### Best Practices for Packages with a Binary and a Library
> We mentioned a package can contain both a `src/main.rs` binary crate root as well as a `src/lib.rs` library crate root, and both crates will have the package name by default.
>
> **Typically, packages with this pattern of containing both a library and a binary crate will have just enough code in the binary crate to start an executable that calls code with the library crate.**
>
> This lets other projects benefit from the most functionality that the package provides, because the library crate’s code can be shared.
>
> The **module tree** should be defined in `src/lib.rs`. Then, any public items can be used in the binary crate by starting paths with the name of the package. The binary crate becomes a user of the library crate just like a completely external crate would use the library crate: it can only use the public API. This helps you design a good API; not only are you the author, you’re also a client!

## Starting Relative Paths with super
We can construct relative paths that begin in the parent module, rather than the current module or the crate root, by using `super` at the start of the path. This is like starting a filesystem path with the `..` syntax. Using `super` allows us to reference an item that we know is in the parent module, which can make rearranging the module tree easier when the module is closely related to the parent, but the parent might be moved elsewhere in the module tree someday.

```rust
// src/lib.rs
fn deliver_order() {}

mod back_of_house {
    fn fix_incorrect_order() {
        cook_order();
        super::deliver_order();
    }
    fn cook_order() {}
}
```
* The `fix_incorrect_order` function is in the `back_of_house` module, so we can use super to go to the parent module of `back_of_house`, which in this case is crate, the root. From there, we look for `deliver_order` and find it. Success!

## Making Structs and Enums Public
We can also use `pub` to designate structs and enums as public, but there are a few details extra to the usage of `pub` with structs and enums.

If we use `pub` before a struct definition, we make the struct public, but the struct’s fields will still be private. We can make each field public or not on a case-by-case basis:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
    pub struct Breakfast {
        pub toast: String,
        seasonal_fruit: String,
    }

    impl Breakfast {
        pub fn summer(toast: &str) -> Breakfast {
            Breakfast {
                toast: String::from(toast),
                seasonal_fruit: String::from("peaches"),
            }
        }
    }
}
```

In contrast, if we make an enum public, all of its variants are then public. We only need the `pub` before the `enum` keyword:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
    pub enum Appetizer {
        Soup,
        Salad,
    }
}
```

> Enums aren’t very useful unless their variants are public; it would be annoying to have to annotate all enum variants with `pub` in every case, so the default for enum variants is to be public. Structs are often useful without their fields being public, so struct fields follow the general rule of everything being private by default unless annotated with `pub`.

There’s one more situation involving `pub` that we haven’t covered, and that is our last module system feature: the `use` keyword. We’ll cover `use` by itself first, and then we’ll show how to combine `pub` and `use`.