# Bringing Paths into Scope with the `use` Keyword

Having to write out all the complete *path*s to call functions can feel inconvenient and repetitive. Fortunately, there’s a way to simplify this process: we can create a shortcut to a path with the `use` keyword once, and then use the shorter name everywhere else in the scope.

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        pub fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}
use crate::front_of_house::hosting;
pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```
* Adding `use` and a path in a scope is similar to creating a symbolic link in the filesystem. Paths brought into scope with `use` also check privacy, like any other paths.

# Providing New Names with the `as` Keyword
There’s another solution to the problem of bringing two types of the same name into the same scope with use: after the path, we can specify `as` and a new local name, or *alias*, for the type.:
```rust
use std::fmt::Result;
use std::io::Result as IoResult;
fn function1() -> Result {
    //...
}
fn function2() -> IoResult<()> {
    //...
}
```

# Re-exporting Names with `pub use`
When we bring a name into scope with the `use` keyword, the name available in the new scope is private. To enable the code that calls our code to refer to that name as if it had been defined in that code’s scope, we can combine `pub` and `use`. This technique is called *re-exporting* because we’re bringing an item into scope but also making that item available for others to bring into their scope:
```rust
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        pub fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}
pub use crate::front_of_house::hosting;
pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```

# Using External Packages
There is an external package called `rand` that generates random numbers. To use `rand` in our project, we added this line to `Cargo.toml`:
```rust
rand = "0.8.5"
```
* Adding `rand` as a dependency in `Cargo.toml` tells Cargo to download the `rand` package and any dependencies from `crates.io` and make `rand` available to our project.

```rust
use rand::Rng;
fn main() {
    let secret_number = rand::thread_rng().gen_range(1..=100);
}
```
* Then, to bring `rand` definitions into the scope of our package, we added a `use` line starting with the name of the crate, `rand`, and listed the items we wanted to bring into scope.

# Using Nested Paths to Clean Up Large use Lists

Instead of writing as following:
```rust
use std::cmp::Ordering;
use std::io;
```
Instead, we can use nested paths to bring the same items into scope in one line. We do this by specifying the common part of the path:
```rust
use std::{ cmp::Ordering, io };
```

We can use a nested path at any level in a path, which is useful when combining two `use` statements that share a subpath:
```rust
use std::io;
use std::io::Write;
```
To merge these two paths into one `use` statement, we can use `self` in the nested path:
```rust
use std::io::{self, Write};
```

* In bigger programs, bringing many items into scope from the same crate or module using nested paths can reduce the number of separate `use` statements needed by a lot!

# The Glob Operator
If we want to bring *all* public items defined in a path into scope, we can specify that path followed by the `*` glob operator:
```rust
use std::collections::*;
```