# Compound Types
Compound types can group multiple values into one type. Rust has two primitive compound types: *tuples* and *arrays*.

## Tuple Type
A *tuple* is a general way of grouping together a number of values with a variety of types into one compound type. Tuples have a fixed length: once declared, they **cannot** grow or shrink in size.

We create a tuple by writing a comma-separated list of values inside parentheses. Each position in the tuple has a type, and the types of the different values in the tuple don’t have to be the same. We’ve added optional type annotations in this example:
```rust
fn main() {
    let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
}
```

### Tuple Access
To get the individual values out of a tuple, we can use pattern matching to destructure a tuple value, like this:
```rust
fn main() {
    let tup = (500, 6.4, 1);
    let (x, y, z) = tup;
    println!("The value of (x, y, z) is: ({x}, {y}, {z})");
}
```
The output will be:
```bash
The value of (x, y, z) is: (500, 6.4, 1)
```

We can also access a tuple element directly by using a period (`.`) followed by the index of the value we want to access. For example:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
    let five_hundred = x.0;
    let six_point_four = x.1;
    let one = x.2;
}
```

### Unit
The tuple without any values has a special name, ***unit***. This value and its corresponding type are both written `()` and represent an empty value or an empty return type. Expressions implicitly return the unit value if they don’t return any other value.

## Array Type
Another way to have a collection of multiple values is with an *array*. Unlike a tuple, every element of an array must have the same type. Unlike arrays in some other languages, arrays in Rust have a fixed length.
```rust
fn main() {
    let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
}
```
> Arrays are useful when you want your data allocated on the stack rather than the heap or when you want to ensure you always have a fixed number of elements.

You write an array’s type using square brackets with the type of each element, a semicolon, and then the number of elements in the array, like so:
```rust
let arr: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
```
Here, `i32` is the type of each element. After the semicolon, the number `5` indicates the array contains five elements.

You can also initialize an array to contain the same value for each element by specifying the initial value, followed by a semicolon, and then the length of the array in square brackets, as shown here:
```rust
let arr = [3; 5];
```
The array named `arr` will contain `5` elements that will all be set to the value `3` initially. This is the same as writing `let a = [3, 3, 3, 3, 3];` but in a more concise way.

### Array Access
Let’s see what happens if you try to access an element of an array that is past the end of the array:
```rust
fn main() {
    let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    println!("The sixth number in the array is: {}", arr[5]);
}
```
The program resulted in a *runtime* error at the point of using an invalid value in the indexing operation. The program exited with an error message and didn’t execute the final `println!` statement.

> When you attempt to access an element using indexing, Rust will check that the index you’ve specified is less than the array length. If the index is greater than or equal to the length, Rust will *panic*.

> This check has to happen at runtime, especially in this case, because the compiler can’t possibly know what value a user will enter when they run the code later.

### ideas
> This is an example of Rust’s memory safety principles in action. In many low-level languages, this kind of check is not done, and when you provide an incorrect index, invalid memory can be accessed. Rust protects you against this kind of error by immediately exiting instead of allowing the memory access and continuing.