# Preface
As your project develops, you might find that the library crate continues to get bigger and you want to split your package further into multiple library crates. Cargo offers a feature called **workspaces** that can help manage multiple related packages that are developed in tandem.

# Workspaces
A **workspace** is a collection of one or more packages, called workspace members, that are managed together.

> The offical documentation can be found at [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/workspaces.html).
> A concise exmaple can be found at [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch14-03-cargo-workspaces.html).

The key points of workspaces are:

- Common commands can run across all workspace members, like `cargo check --workspace`.
- All packages share a common [`Cargo.lock`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/guide/cargo-toml-vs-cargo-lock.html) file which locates at the *workspace root*.
- All packages share a common [output directory](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/guide/build-cache.html), which defaults to a directory named `target` in the *workspace root*.
- Sharing package metadata, like with [`workspace.package`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/workspaces.html#the-package-table).
- The [`[patch]`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-patch-section), [`[replace]`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-replace-section) and [`[profile.*]`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/profiles.html) sections in `Cargo.toml` are only recognized in the *root* manifest, and ignored in member crates' manifests.

## The `[workspace]` section
To create an empty workspace, we do the followng:
```bash
$ mkdir my_workspace
$ cd my_workspace
```
Next, in the `my_workspace` directory, we create the `Cargo.toml` file that configures the entire workspace.
* This file won’t have a `[package]` section. Instead, it will start with a `[workspace]` section:
```toml
// ./my_workspace/Cargo.toml
[workspace]
// for later...
```
> At minimum, a workspace has to have a member, either with a root package or as a virtual manifest.

## Root Package
If the `[workspace]` section is added to a `Cargo.toml` that already defines a `[package]`, the package is the *root package* of the workspace. The *workspace root* is the directory where the workspace's `Cargo.toml` is located:
```toml
[workspace]

[package]
name = "hello_world" # the name of the package
version = "0.1.0"    # the current version, obeying semver
authors = ["Alice <a@example.com>", "Bob <b@example.com>"]
```

## Virtual Workspace
Alternatively, a `Cargo.toml` file can be created with a `[workspace]` section but without a `[package]` section. This is called a *virtual manifest*. This is typically useful when there isn't a "primary" package, or you want to keep all the packages organized in separate directories:
```toml
# ./my_workspace/Cargo.toml
[workspace]
members = [
    "hello_world",
]
```
```toml
# ./my_workspace/hello_world/Cargo.toml
[package]
name = "hello_world" # the name of the package
version = "0.1.0"    # the current version, obeying semver
authors = ["Alice <a@example.com>", "Bob <b@example.com>"]
```

## The `members` and `exclude` fields
The `members` and `exclude` fields define which packages are members of the workspace:
```toml
[workspace]
members = ["member1", "path/to/member2", "crates/*"]
exclude = ["crates/foo", "path/to/other"]
```
* All path dependencies residing in the workspace directory automatically become members. Additional members can be listed with the `members` key, which should be an array of strings containing directories with `Cargo.toml` files.
* The members list also supports globs to match multiple paths, using typical filename glob patterns like `*` and `?`.
* The `exclude` key can be used to prevent paths from being included in a workspace. This can be useful if some path dependencies aren't desired to be in the workspace at all, or using a glob pattern and you want to remove a directory.