# Specifying Placeholder Types in Trait Definitions with Associated Types

*Associated types* connect a type placeholder with a trait such that the trait method definitions can use these placeholder types in their signatures.

**The implementor of a trait will specify the concrete type to be used instead of the placeholder type for the particular implementation**.

> In that way, we can define a trait that uses some types without needing to know exactly what those types are until the trait is implemented.

One example of a trait with an associated type is the `Iterator` trait that the standard library provides. The associated type is named `Item` and stands in for the type of the values the type implementing the `Iterator` trait is iterating over. The definition of the `Iterator` trait is as shown:

```RUST
pub trait Iterator {
    type Item;
    fn next(&mut self) -> Option<Self::Item>;
}
```

* Implementors of the `Iterator` trait will specify the concrete type for `Item`, and the `next` method will return an `Option` containing a value of that concrete type.

# Associated Types vs. Generics

**Associated types might seem like a similar concept to generics, in that the latter allow us to define a function without specifying what types it can handle**. 

To examine the difference between the two concepts, we’ll look at an implementation of the `Iterator` trait on a type named `Counter` that specifies the `Item` type is `u32`:

```rust
impl Iterator for Counter {
    type Item = u32;
    fn next(&mut self) -> Option<Self::Item> {
        // ...
```

This syntax seems comparable to that of generics. So why not just define the `Iterator` trait with generics as shown?

```RUST
pub trait Iterator<T> {
    fn next(&mut self) -> Option<T>;
}
```

* The difference is that when using generics, we must annotate the types in each implementation; when a trait has a generic parameter, **it can be implemented for a type multiple times**, changing the concrete types of the generic type parameters each time. When we use the `next` method on `Counter`, we would have to provide type annotations to indicate which implementation of `Iterator` we want to use.

* With associated types, we don’t need to annotate types because we can’t implement a trait on a type multiple times. We can only choose what the type of `Item` will be once, because there can only be one `impl Iterator for Counter`. 
* We don’t have to specify that we want an iterator of `u32` values everywhere that we call `next` on `Counter`.

**Associated types also become part of the trait’s contract**: implementors of the trait must provide a type to stand in for the associated type placeholder.

> Associated types often have a name that describes how the type will be used, and documenting the associated type in the API documentation is good practice.