# Using Trait Objects That Allow for Values of Different Types

To show how we might achieve this, we’ll create an example graphical user interface (GUI) tool that iterates through a list of items, calling a `draw` method on each one to draw it to the screen. We’ll create a library crate called `gui` that contains the structure of a GUI library.

> To do this in a language with inheritance, we might define a class named `Component` that has a method named `draw` on it. The other classes, such as `Button`, `Image`, and `SelectBox`, would inherit from `Component` and thus inherit the `draw` method. They could each override the `draw` method to define their custom behavior, but the framework could treat all of the types as if they were `Component` instances and call `draw` on them. But because Rust doesn’t have inheritance, we need another way to structure the `gui` library to allow users to extend it with new types.

# Defining a Trait for Common Behavior

To implement the behavior we want `gui` to have, we’ll define a trait named `Draw` that will have one method named `draw`. Then we can define a vector that takes a *trait object*.

* A trait object points to both an instance of a type implementing our specified trait and a table used to look up trait methods on that type at runtime.
* We can use trait objects in place of a generic or concrete type.
* Wherever we use a trait object, Rust’s type system will ensure at compile time that any value used in that context will implement the trait object’s trait. Consequently, we don’t need to know all the possible types at compile time.

> We’ve mentioned that, in Rust, we refrain from calling structs and enums “objects” to distinguish them from other languages’ objects. In a struct or enum, the data in the struct fields and the behavior in `impl` blocks are separated, whereas in other languages, the data and behavior combined into one concept is often labeled an object.

> However, trait objects *are* more like objects in other languages in the sense that they combine data and behavior. But trait objects differ from traditional objects in that we can’t add data to a trait object. Trait objects aren’t as generally useful as objects in other languages: their specific purpose is to allow abstraction across common behavior.

Let’s check the following code that uses a generic type parameter with trait bounds:

```rust
// src/lib.rs
pub trait Draw {
    fn draw(&self);
}

pub struct Screen<T: Draw> {
    pub components: Vec<T>,
}

impl<T> Screen<T>
where
    T: Draw,
{
    pub fn run(&self) {
        for component in self.components.iter() {
            component.draw();
        }
    }
}
```

* A generic type parameter can only be substituted with one concrete type at a time.
* This restricts us to a `Screen` instance that has a list of components all of type `Button` or all of type `TextField`.

Let’s see how to use trait object to store varies type of object:

```rust
// src/lib.rs
pub trait Draw {
    fn draw(&self);
}

pub struct Screen {
    pub components: Vec<Box<dyn Draw>>,
}

impl Screen {
    pub fn run(&self) {
        for component in self.components.iter() {
            component.draw();
        }
    }
}
```

* `dyn` stands for dynamic. 
* This works differently from defining a struct that uses a generic type parameter with trait bounds. A generic type parameter can only be substituted with one concrete type at a time, whereas ***trait objects* allow for multiple concrete types to fill in for the trait object at runtime**.

See the following example:

```rust
// src/main.rs
use gui::Draw;

struct SelectBox {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
    options: Vec<String>,
}

impl Draw for SelectBox {
    fn draw(&self) {}
}

use gui::{Button, Screen};

fn main() {
    let screen = Screen {
        components: vec![
            Box::new(SelectBox {
                width: 75,
                height: 10,
                options: vec![
                    String::from("Yes"),
                    String::from("Maybe"),
                    String::from("No"),
                ],
            }),
            Box::new(Button {
                width: 50,
                height: 10,
                label: String::from("OK"),
            }),
        ],
    };

    screen.run();
}
```

* When we wrote the library, we didn’t know that someone might add the `SelectBox` type, but our `Screen` implementation was able to operate on the new type and draw it because `SelectBox` implements the `Draw` trait, which means it implements the `draw` method.

    > This concept—of being concerned only with the messages a value responds to rather than the value’s concrete type—is similar to the concept of *duck typing* in dynamically typed languages: if it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, then it must be a duck!

* The advantage of using trait objects and Rust’s type system to write code similar to code using duck typing is that we never have to check whether a value implements a particular method at runtime or worry about getting errors if a value doesn’t implement a method but we call it anyway. Rust won’t compile our code if the values don’t implement the traits that the trait objects need.

# Trait Objects Perform Dynamic Dispatch

* Recall in the [“Performance of Code Using Generics”](../8. Generic Types\8.1 Generic Data Types.md) section in chapter 8, our discussion on the monomorphization process performed by the compiler when we use trait bounds on generics: the compiler generates nongeneric implementations of functions and methods for each concrete type that we use in place of a generic type parameter. The code that results from monomorphization is doing *static dispatch*, which is when the compiler knows what method you’re calling at compile time.
* This is opposed to ***dynamic dispatch***, which is when the compiler can’t tell at compile time which method you’re calling. In dynamic dispatch cases, **the compiler emits code that at runtime will figure out which method to call**.

> When we use trait objects, Rust must use dynamic dispatch. The compiler doesn’t know all the types that might be used with the code that’s using trait objects, so it doesn’t know which method implemented on which type to call. Instead, at runtime, Rust uses the pointers inside the trait object to know which method to call. This lookup incurs a runtime cost that doesn’t occur with static dispatch. Dynamic dispatch also prevents the compiler from choosing to inline a method’s code, which in turn prevents some optimizations.

So it’s a trade-off to consider.