# 1.1.1 Choices - 'AND' versus 'OR'

In the next few pages we will often be constructing an object of some kind by repeatedly making a sequence of choices. In order to count the total number of objects we could construct we must know how many choices are available at each step, but we must know more: we also need to know how to combine these numbers correctly. **A generally good guideline** is to look for the words **“AND”** and **“OR”** in the description of the sequence of choices available. Here are a few simple examples.

**Example 1.1**. On a table before you are 7 apples, 8 oranges, and 5 bananas. 

* Choose an apple and a banana. 

  There are 7 choices for an apple AND 5 choices for a banana: 7 x 5 = 35 choices in all. 

* Choose an apple or an orange. 

  There are 7 choices for an apple OR 8 choices for an orange: 7 + 8 = 15 choices in all.

* Choose an apple and either an orange or a banana. 

  There are 7 x (8 + 5) = 91 possible choices.

* Choose either an apple and an orange, or a banana. 

  There are (7 x 8) + 5 = 61 possible choices.

Generally, “**AND**” corresponds to multiplication and **“OR”** corresponds to addition

## Cartesian Product

From a mathematical point of view, “AND” corresponds to the Cartesian product of sets. If you choose one element of the set A AND you choose one element of the set B, then this is equivalent to choosing one element of the **<u>*Cartesian product*</u>** of A and B:
$$
A \times B = \{(a, b) : a \in A \text{ and } b \in B\}
$$
which is the set of all ordered pairs of elements $(a, b)$ with $a \in A$ and $b \in B$. In general, the cardinalities of these sets are related by the formula:
$$
|A \times B| = |A|·|B|
$$

## Union

Similarly, from a mathematical point of view, “OR” corresponds to the union of sets. If you choose one element of the set $A$ OR you choose one element of the set $B$, then this is equivalent to choosing one element of the <u>***union***</u> of $A$ and $B$:
$$
A \cup B = \{c : c \in A \text{ or } c \in B\}
$$
which is the set of all elements $c$ which are either in $A$ or in $B$.

## Intersection

It is not always true that $|A\cup B| = |A|+|B|$, because any elements in both $A$ and $B$ would be counted twice by $|A| + |B|$. The **<u>*intersection*</u>** of A and B is the set
$$
A \cap B = \{c : c \in A \text{ and } c \in B\}
$$
which is the set of all elements $c$ which are both in $A$ and in $B$.

What is generally true is that
$$
|A \cup B| = |A| + |B| - |A \cap B|
$$
In particular, if $A \cap B= \varnothing$ then $|A \cup B| = |A| + |B|$. That means $A$ and $B$ has no common elements, we call such a union of sets $A$ and $B$ as **<u>*disjoint union*</u>** of sets.

