# Calling Methods with the Same Name

Nothing in Rust prevents a trait from having a method with the same name as another trait’s method, nor does Rust prevent you from implementing both traits on one type. It’s also possible to implement a method directly on the type with the same name as methods from traits.

**When calling methods with the same name, you’ll need to tell Rust which one you want to use**:

```rust
trait Pilot {
    fn fly(&self);
}

trait Wizard {
    fn fly(&self);
}

struct Human;

impl Pilot for Human {
    fn fly(&self) {
        println!("This is your captain speaking.");
    }
}

impl Wizard for Human {
    fn fly(&self) {
        println!("Up!");
    }
}

impl Human {
    fn fly(&self) {
        println!("*waving arms furiously*");
    }
}
```

* When we call `fly` on an instance of `Human`, **the compiler defaults to calling the method that is directly implemented on the type**:

```rust
fn main() {
    let person = Human;
    person.fly();
}
```

```txt
*waving arms furiously*
```

To call the `fly` methods from either the `Pilot` trait or the `Wizard` trait, we need to use more explicit syntax to specify which `fly` method we mean:

```rust
fn main() {
    let person = Human;
    Pilot::fly(&person);
    Wizard::fly(&person);
    person.fly();
}
```

* Because the `fly` method takes a `self` parameter, if we had two *types* that both implement one *trait*, Rust could figure out which implementation of a trait to use based on the type of `self`.

# Usage of Fully Qualified Syntax

However, associated functions that are not methods don’t have a `self` parameter. When there are multiple types or traits that define non-method functions with the same function name, Rust doesn't always know which type you mean unless you use ***fully qualified syntax***.

In general, fully qualified syntax is defined as follows:

```rust
<Type as Trait>::function(receiver_if_method, next_arg, ...);
```

> For associated functions that aren’t methods, there would not be a `receiver`: there would only be the list of other arguments. You could use fully qualified syntax everywhere that you call functions or methods.
>
> However, you’re allowed to omit any part of this syntax that Rust can figure out from other information in the program. You only need to use this more verbose syntax in cases where there are multiple implementations that use the same name and Rust needs help to identify which implementation you want to call.

Here is an example:

```rust
trait Animal {
    fn baby_name() -> String;
}

struct Dog;

impl Dog {
    fn baby_name() -> String {
        String::from("Spot")
    }
}

impl Animal for Dog {
    fn baby_name() -> String {
        String::from("puppy")
    }
}

fn main() {
    println!("A baby dog is called a {}", Dog::baby_name());
}
```

```txt
A baby dog is called a Spot
```

This output isn’t what we wanted. We want to call the `baby_name` function that is part of the `Animal` trait that we implemented on `Dog` so the code prints `A baby dog is called a puppy`.

To disambiguate and tell Rust that we want to use the implementation of `Animal` for `Dog` as opposed to the implementation of `Animal` for some other type, we need to use fully qualified syntax:

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("A baby dog is called a {}", <Dog as Animal>::baby_name());
}
```

```txt
A baby dog is called a puppy
```

