# Using the Newtype Pattern to Implement External Traits on External Types

We mentioned before that the *orphan rule* states that **we’re only allowed to implement a trait on a type if either the trait or the type are local to our crate**.

It’s possible to get around this restriction using the ***newtype pattern***, which involves creating a new type in a tuple struct.

* The tuple struct will have one field and be a thin wrapper around the type we want to implement a trait for. Then the wrapper type is local to our crate, and we can implement the trait on the wrapper.
* ***Newtype*** is a term that originates from the Haskell programming language. There is no runtime performance penalty for using this pattern, and the wrapper type is elided at compile time.

## Example

As an example, let’s say we want to implement `Display` on `Vec<T>`, which the orphan rule prevents us from doing directly because the `Display` trait and the `Vec<T>` type are defined outside our crate:

```rust
use std::fmt;

struct Wrapper(Vec<String>);

impl fmt::Display for Wrapper {
    fn fmt(&self, f: &mut fmt::Formatter) -> fmt::Result {
        write!(f, "[{}]", self.0.join(", "))
    }
}

fn main() {
    let w = Wrapper(vec![String::from("hello"), String::from("world")]);
    println!("w = {}", w);
}
```

* **The downside** of using this technique is that `Wrapper` is a new type, so it doesn’t have the methods of the value it’s holding. We would have to implement all the methods of `Vec<T>` directly on `Wrapper`.
* If we don’t want the `Wrapper` type to have all the methods of the inner type—we would have to implement just the methods we do want manually. So it is also **good for usage of restriction**.
* This newtype pattern is also useful even when traits are not involved.