# 2.6 Putting It All Together

In this lesson, we will put together everything that we have learned so far about limits and continuity. We recommend that you study and understand these examples very well before you move on to the problems assigned in the next section. Try to answer each question. If you do not know how to answer the question, click to reveal the answer to study the solution. Then, move on to the next question.

## Tips

When you are trying to find the limit, if it exists, or show that the limit does not exist:

1. If the function is not defined piecewise, try direct substitution. If you get a finite number, congratulations, you have found the limit.

2. If 1 fails, try factoring and cancelling. If you get a finite number, congratulations, you have found the limit

3. If 2 fails, try the following

   a. Try $x = 0$, by inspection figure out the limit, use L’Hˆopital’s Rule if applicable.

   b. Try $y = 0$, by inspection figure out the limit, use L’Hˆopital’s Rule if applicable.

   Did you get different results from a) and b)? Congratulations, you proved that the limit DNE.

4. Did you get the same results from a) and b)?

   Hmm, let’s make sure and try $y = x$ (or another smart choice such as $y = mx, y = mx^2 , y = mx^{1/2}$ to match the degrees of numerator and denominator) if it is easy to find the limit by inspection. Did you get a different result? Congratulations, you proved that the limit DNE.

5. Did you get the same results as a) and b)? It may be a good candidate for the limit. Try the Squeeze Theorem.

   

