# Method Syntax
*Methods* are similar to functions: we declare them with the `fn` keyword and a name, they can have parameters and a return value, and they contain some code that’s run when the method is called from somewhere else. Unlike functions, methods are defined within the context of a struct (or an enum or a trait object, respectively), and their first parameter is always `self`, which represents the instance of the struct the method is being called on.

# Defining Methods
```rust
struct Rectangle {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.width * self.height
    }
}
```
```rust
fn main() {
    let rect1 = Rectangle {
        width: 30,
        height: 50,
    };
    println!("The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.", rect1.area());
}
```
To define the function within the context of `Rectangle`, we start an `impl` (implementation) block for `Rectangle`. Everything within this `impl` block will be associated with the `Rectangle` type.

In the signature for `area`, we use `&self` instead of `rectangle: &Rectangle`. The `&self` is actually short for `self: &Self`. Within an `impl` block, the type `Self` is an alias for the type that the `impl` block is for.

> Methods **must** have a parameter named `self` of type `Self` for their first parameter, so Rust lets you abbreviate this with only the name `self` in the first parameter spot.

> Methods can take ownership of `self`, borrow `self` immutably, or borrow `self` mutably.

The main reason for using methods instead of functions, in addition to providing method syntax and not having to repeat the type of `self` in every method’s signature, is for organization.
> We’ve put all the things we can do with an instance of a type in one `impl` block rather than making future users of our code search for capabilities of `Rectangle` in various places in the library we provide.

# Associated Functions
All functions defined within an `impl` block are called associated functions because they’re associated with the type named after the `impl`.

We can define associated functions that don’t have `self` as their first parameter (and thus are not methods) because they don’t need an instance of the type to work with.
> We’ve already used one function like this: the `String::from` function that’s defined on the `String` type.

> Associated functions that aren’t methods are often used for constructors that will return a new instance of the struct. These are often called `new`, but `new` isn’t a special name and isn’t built into the language.

# Multiple `impl` Blocks
Each struct is allowed to have multiple `impl` blocks. For example:
```rust
impl Rectangle {
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.width * self.height
    }
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
        self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
    }
}
```
We’ll see a case in which multiple impl blocks are useful in chapters that talks about generic types and traits.

# Where is the `->` Operator?
In C and C++, two different operators are used for calling methods: you use `.` if you’re calling a method on the object directly and `->` if you’re calling the method on a pointer to the object and need to dereference the pointer first. In other words, if object is a pointer, `object->something()` is similar to `(*object).something()`.

Rust doesn’t have an equivalent to the `->` operator; instead, Rust has a feature called **automatic referencing and dereferencing**. Calling methods is one of the few places in Rust that has this behavior.

Here’s how it works: when you call a method with `object.something()`, Rust automatically adds in `&`, `&mut`, or `*` so `object` matches the signature of the method. In other words, the following are the same:
```rust
p1.distance(&p2);
(&p1).distance(&p2);
```
The first one looks much cleaner. This automatic referencing behavior works because methods have a clear receiver—the type of `self`, also named `Self`. Given the receiver and name of a method, Rust can figure out definitively whether the method is reading (`&self`), mutating (`&mut self`), or consuming (`self`). 
> The fact that Rust makes borrowing implicit for method receivers is a big part of making ownership ergonomic in practice.

# Summary
Structs let you create custom types that are meaningful for your domain. By using structs, you can keep associated pieces of data connected to each other and name each piece to make your code clear. In `impl` blocks, you can define functions that are associated with your type, and methods are a kind of associated function that let you specify the behavior that instances of your structs have.

But structs aren’t the only way you can create custom types: let’s turn to Rust’s *enum* feature to add another tool to your toolbox.