# Shadowing
You can declare a new variable with the **same name** as a previous variable:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    let x = x + 1;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```
The variable is declared twice. The second variable is referred by the `println!`. The output will be:
```bash
The value of x is: 6
```

> The first appeared variable is shadowed by the second, it means that the second variable is actually referred to when you use the name of the variable (also what the compiler will refer).

In effect, the second variable overshadows the first, taking any uses of the variable name to itself until either it itself is overshadowed or the scope ends.

The previous example already shows us the first variable will be unreachable once the second variable is declared, which means the first variable is overshadowed by the second one.

Or, shadowing will be invalid once the variable goes out of the current scope:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    {
        let x = x + 1;
        println!("The value of x in the inner scope is: {x}");
    }
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```
The output will be
```bash
The value of x in the inner scope is: 6
The value of x is: 5
```

# The Difference with `mut`
> 1. Shadowing is different from marking a variable as `mut`. Because we will get a compile-time error if we accidentally try to reassign to this variable without using the `let` keyword. By using `let` (shadowing), we can perform a few transformations on a value but have the variable be immutable after those transformations have been completed.

> 2. The other difference between `mut` and shadowing is that because we are **effectively creating a new variable** when we use the `let` keyword again, we can change the type of the value and at the meantime we may reuse the same name.

For example, say our program asks a user to show how many spaces they want between some text by inputting space characters, and then we want to store that input as a number:
```rust
    let spaces = "   ";
    let spaces = spaces.len();
```
The first `spaces` variable is a string type and the second `spaces` variable is a number type.
> Shadowing thus spares us from having to come up with different names, such as `spaces_str` and `spaces_num`; instead, we can reuse the simpler `spaces` name.