# Control Flow
The ability to run some code depending on whether a condition is `true` and to run some code repeatedly while a condition is `true` are basic building blocks in most programming languages. The most common constructs that let you control the flow of execution of Rust code are `if` expressions and *loops*.

## `if` Expressions
All `if` expressions start with the keyword `if`, followed by a condition:
```rust
fn main() {
    let number = 3;
    if number < 5 {
        println!("condition was true");
    } else {
        println!("condition was false");
    }
}
```

It’s also worth noting that the condition in this code must be a `bool`. If the condition isn’t a `bool`, we’ll get an error. For example, try running the following code:
```rust
fn main() {
    let number = 3;
    if number {
        println!("number was three");
    }
}
```
The if condition evaluates to a value of `3` this time, and Rust throws an error:
```bash
error[E0308]: mismatched types
 --> src/main.rs:4:8
  |
4 |     if number {
  |        ^^^^^^ expected `bool`, found integer
```
> The error indicates that Rust expected a `bool` but got an integer. Unlike languages such as Ruby and JavaScript, Rust will not automatically try to convert non-Boolean types to a Boolean. You must be explicit and always provide `if` with a Boolean as its condition.

### Handling Multiple Conditions with `else if`
You can use multiple conditions by combining `if` and `else` in an `else if` expression. For example:
```rust
fn main() {
    let number = 6;
    if number % 4 == 0 {
        println!("number is divisible by 4");
    } else if number % 3 == 0 {
        println!("number is divisible by 3");
    } else if number % 2 == 0 {
        println!("number is divisible by 2");
    } else {
        println!("number is not divisible by 4, 3, or 2");
    }
}
```
> Using too many `else if` expressions can clutter your code, so if you have more than one, you might want to refactor your code. Later sections will introduct a powerful Rust branching construct called `match` for these cases.

### Using `if` in a `let` Statement
Because `if` is an expression, we can use it on the right side of a `let` statement to assign the outcome to a variable:
```rust
fn main() {
    let condition = true;
    let number = if condition { 5 } else { 6 };
    println!("The value of number is: {number}");
}
```

## Loops
t’s often useful to execute a block of code more than once. For this task, Rust provides several *loops*, which will run through the code inside the loop body to the end and then start immediately back at the beginning. To experiment with loops, let’s make a new project called *loops*.

### Repeating Code with `loop` expression
The `loop` keyword tells Rust to execute a block of code over and over again forever or until you explicitly tell it to stop:
```rust
fn main() {
    loop {
        println!("again!");
    }
}
```

One of the uses of a `loop` is to retry an operation you know might fail, such as checking whether a thread has completed its job. Since it is an expression, you might also need to pass the result of that operation out of the loop to the rest of your code. To do this, you can add the value you want returned after the `break` expression you use to stop the loop; that value will be returned out of the loop so you can use it, as shown here:
```rust
fn main() {
    let mut counter = 0;

    let result = loop {
        counter += 1;
        if counter == 10 {
            break counter * 2;
        }
    };

    println!("The result is {result}");
}
```

### Loop Labels to Disambiguate Between Multiple Loops
If you have loops within loops, `break` and `continue` apply to the innermost loop at that point. You can optionally specify a *loop label* on a loop that you can then use with `break` or `continue` to specify that those keywords apply to the labeled loop instead of the innermost loop. Loop labels must begin with a single quote. Here’s an example with two nested loops:
```rust
fn main() {
    let mut count = 0;
    
    'counting_up: loop {
        println!("count = {count}");
        let mut remaining = 10;

        loop {
            println!("remaining = {remaining}");
            if remaining == 9 {
                break;
            }
            if count == 2 {
                break 'counting_up;
            }
            remaining -= 1;
        }

        count += 1;
    }
    println!("End count = {count}");
}
```

## Conditional Loops with `while` expression
A program will often need to evaluate a condition within a loop. While the condition is `true`, the loop runs. When the condition ceases to be `true`, the program calls `break`, stopping the loop.

This pattern is so common that Rust has a built-in language construct for it, called a `while` loop:
```rust
fn main() {
    let mut number = 3;

    while number != 0 {
        println!("{number}!");
        number -= 1;
    }

    println!("LIFTOFF!!!");
}
```
This construct eliminates a lot of nesting that would be necessary if you used `loop`, `if`, `else`, and `break`, and it’s clearer. While a condition evaluates to `true`, the code runs; otherwise, it exits the loop.

## Looping Through a Collection with `for` expression
You can use a `for` to loop over the elements of a collection:
```rust
fn main() {
    let arr = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50];
    for element in arr {
        println!("the value is: {element}");
    }
}
```
> The above code can be rewritten using `while` loop. However, the while loop approach is error prone; we could cause the program to *panic* if the index value or test condition is incorrect. It’s also slow, because the compiler adds runtime code to perform the conditional check of whether the index is within the bounds of the array on every iteration through the loop.

In this case, using `for` loop instead of `while` loop. We’ve now increased the safety of the code and eliminated the chance of bugs that might result from going beyond the end of the array or not going far enough and missing some items.