# `RefCell<T>` and the Interior Mutability Pattern

***Interior mutability*** is a design pattern in Rust that allows you to mutate data even when there are immutable references to that data; normally, this action is disallowed by the borrowing rules. To mutate data, the pattern uses `unsafe` code inside a data structure to bend Rust’s usual rules that govern mutation and borrowing. Unsafe code indicates to the compiler that we’re checking the rules manually instead of relying on the compiler to check them for us (we will discuss unsafe code in later chapters).

Let’s explore this concept by looking at the `RefCell<T>` type that follows the interior mutability pattern.

# Enforcing Borrowing Rules at Runtime with `RefCell<T>`

Unlike `Rc<T>`, the `RefCell<T>` type represents single ownership over the data it holds. So, what makes `RefCell<T>` different from a type like `Box<T>`? Recall the borrowing rules you learned before:

- At any given time, you can have *either* (but not both) one mutable reference or any number of immutable references.
- References must always be valid.

With references and `Box<T>`, the borrowing rules’ invariants are enforced at compile time. With `RefCell<T>`, these invariants are enforced ***at runtime***.

With references, if you break these rules, you’ll get a compiler error. With `RefCell<T>`, if you break these rules, your program will panic and exit.

> The advantages of checking the borrowing rules at compile time are that errors will be caught sooner in the development process, and there is no impact on runtime performance because all the analysis is completed beforehand. For those reasons, checking the borrowing rules at compile time is the best choice in the majority of cases, which is why this is Rust’s default.

> The advantage of checking the borrowing rules at runtime instead is that certain memory-safe scenarios are then allowed, where they would’ve been disallowed by the compile-time checks. Static analysis, like the Rust compiler, is inherently conservative. Some properties of code are impossible to detect by analyzing the code: the most famous example is the Halting Problem, which is beyond the scope of this book but is an interesting topic to research.

The `RefCell<T>` type is useful when you’re sure your code follows the borrowing rules but the compiler is unable to understand and guarantee that.

* `RefCell<T>` is **only for use in single-threaded scenarios** and will give you a compile-time error if you try using it in a multithreaded context.

Here is a recap of the reasons to choose `Box<T>`, `Rc<T>`, or `RefCell<T>`:

- `Rc<T>` enables multiple owners of the same data; `Box<T>` and `RefCell<T>` have single owners.
- `Box<T>` allows immutable or mutable borrows checked at compile time; `Rc<T>` allows only immutable borrows checked at compile time; `RefCell<T>` allows immutable or mutable borrows checked at runtime.
- Because `RefCell<T>` allows mutable borrows checked at runtime, you can mutate the value inside the `RefCell<T>` even when the `RefCell<T>` is immutable.

Mutating the value inside an immutable value is the *interior mutability* pattern. Let’s look at a situation in which interior mutability is useful and examine how it’s possible.

# Keeping Track of Borrows at Runtime with `RefCell<T>`

> The [original book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch15-05-interior-mutability.html) introduces a very detailed example that illustrates you why a `RefCell<T>` might be useful.

A `RefCell` is another way to change values without needing to declare `mut`. It means "reference cell", and is like a `Cell` but uses references instead of copies:

```rust
use std::cell::RefCell;
struct User {
    username: String,
    friends: RefCell<Vec<String>>,
    // Many other fields
}
```

There are many methods for `RefCell`. Two of them are `.borrow()` and `.borrow_mut()`. With these methods, you can do the same thing you do with `&` and `&mut`. The rules are the same:

- Many borrows is fine,
- one mutable borrow is fine,
- but mutable and immutable together is not fine.

changing the value in a `RefCell` is very easy:

```rust
fn main() {
    let user1 = User {
        username: "User 1".to_string(),
        friends: RefCell::new(vec![]),
    };
    let borrow1 = user1.friends.borrow_mut().push(String::new("Chris")); // first mutable borrow - okay
}
```

# Multiple Mutable Borrowing At Runtime with `RefCell<T>`

Following the above code, we are deliberately trying to create two mutable borrows active for the same scope:

```rust
fn main() {
    let user1 = User {
        username: "User 1".to_string(),
        friends: RefCell::new(vec![]),
    };
    let borrow1 = user1.friends.borrow_mut().push(String::new("Chris")); // 1st mut borrow - okay
    let borrow2 = user1.friends.borrow_mut().push(String::new("Jerry")); // 2nd mut borrow - panic
    // ↑ ❌ PANIC
}
```

# How  `RefCell<T>` Works

When creating immutable and mutable references, we use the `&` and `&mut` syntax, respectively. With `RefCell<T>`, we use the `borrow` and `borrow_mut` methods, which are part of the safe API that belongs to `RefCell<T>`. The `borrow` method returns the smart pointer type `Ref<T>`, and `borrow_mut` returns the smart pointer type `RefMut<T>`. Both types implement `Deref`, so we can treat them like regular references.

The `RefCell<T>` keeps track of how many `Ref<T>` and `RefMut<T>` smart pointers are currently active. Every time we call `borrow`, the `RefCell<T>` increases its count of how many immutable borrows are active. When a `Ref<T>` value goes out of scope, the count of immutable borrows goes down by one. Just like the compile-time borrowing rules, `RefCell<T>` lets us have many immutable borrows or one mutable borrow at any point in time.

If we try to violate these rules, rather than getting a compiler error as we would with references, the implementation of `RefCell<T>` will panic at runtime.

# Having Multiple Owners of Mutable Data by Combining `Rc<T>` and `RefCell<T>`

A common way to use `RefCell<T>` is in combination with `Rc<T>`. Recall that `Rc<T>` lets you have multiple owners of some data, but it only gives immutable access to that data. If you have an `Rc<T>` that holds a `RefCell<T>`, you can get a value that can have multiple owners ***and*** that you can mutate!

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
enum List {
    Cons(Rc<RefCell<i32>>, Rc<List>),
    Nil,
}

use crate::List::{Cons, Nil};
use std::cell::RefCell;
use std::rc::Rc;

fn main() {
    let value = Rc::new(RefCell::new(5));

    let a = Rc::new(Cons(Rc::clone(&value), Rc::new(Nil)));

    let b = Cons(Rc::new(RefCell::new(3)), Rc::clone(&a));
    let c = Cons(Rc::new(RefCell::new(4)), Rc::clone(&a));

    *value.borrow_mut() += 10;

    println!("a after = {:?}", a);
    println!("b after = {:?}", b);
    println!("c after = {:?}", c);
}
```

When we print `a`, `b`, and `c`, we can see that they all have the modified value of 15 rather than 5:

```txt
$ cargo run
   Compiling cons-list v0.1.0 (file:///projects/cons-list)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.63s
     Running `target/debug/cons-list`
a after = Cons(RefCell { value: 15 }, Nil)
b after = Cons(RefCell { value: 3 }, Cons(RefCell { value: 15 }, Nil))
c after = Cons(RefCell { value: 4 }, Cons(RefCell { value: 15 }, Nil))
```

> This technique is pretty neat! By using `RefCell<T>`, we have an outwardly immutable `List` value. But we can use the methods on `RefCell<T>` that provide access to its interior mutability so we can modify our data when we need to. The runtime checks of the borrowing rules protect us from data races, and it’s sometimes worth trading a bit of speed for this flexibility in our data structures. Note that `RefCell<T>` does not work for multithreaded code! `Mutex<T>` is the thread-safe version of `RefCell<T>` and we’ll discuss `Mutex<T>` later.
