# Storing UTF-8 Encoded Text with Strings
We talked about strings before, but we will look at them in more depth now. New Rustaceans commonly get stuck on strings for a combination of three reasons: Rust’s propensity for exposing possible errors, strings being a more complicated data structure than many programmers give them credit for, and UTF-8. These factors combine in a way that can seem difficult when you’re coming from other programming languages.

We discuss strings in the context of collections because strings are implemented as a collection of bytes, plus some methods to provide useful functionality when those bytes are interpreted as text. In this section. we’ll talk about the operations on `String` that every collection type has, such as creating, updating, and reading. We’ll also discuss the ways in which `String` is different from the other collections, namely how indexing into a `String` is complicated by the differences between how people and computers interpret `String` data.

# What Is a `String`?
We’ll first define what we mean by the term *string*. Rust has only one string type in the core language, which is the string slice `str` that is usually seen in its borrowed form `&str`. we talked about *string slices*, which are references to some UTF-8 encoded string data stored elsewhere. String literals, for example, are stored in the program’s binary and are therefore string slices.

The `String` type, which is provided by Rust’s standard library rather than coded into the core language, is a growable, mutable, owned, UTF-8 encoded string type. When Rustaceans refer to “strings” in Rust, they might be referring to either the `String` or the string slice `&str` types, not just one of those types. Although this section is largely about `String`, both types are used heavily in Rust’s standard library, and both `String` and string slices are UTF-8 encoded.

# Creating a New `String`
```rust
let mut s = String::new();
```
Many of the same operations available with `Vec<T>` are available with `String` as well, because `String` is actually implemented as a wrapper around a vector of bytes with some extra guarantees, restrictions, and capabilities.

## initialzie With a Value
Often, we’ll have some initial data that we want to start the string with. For that, we use the `to_string` method, which is available on any type that implements the `Display` trait, as string literals do:

```rust
let s = "initial contents".to_string();
```
We can also use the function `String::from` to create a `String` from a string literal:
```rust
let s = String::from("initial contents");
```

Remember that strings are UTF-8 encoded, so we can include any properly encoded data in them:
```rust
let hello = String::from("السلام عليكم");
let hello = String::from("Dobrý den");
let hello = String::from("Hello");
let hello = String::from("שָׁלוֹם");
let hello = String::from("नमस्ते");
let hello = String::from("こんにちは");
let hello = String::from("안녕하세요");
let hello = String::from("你好");
let hello = String::from("Olá");
let hello = String::from("Здравствуйте");
let hello = String::from("Hola");
```
All of these are valid `String` values.

# Updating a `String`
A `String` can grow in size and its contents can change, just like the contents of a `Vec<T>`, if you push more data into it. In addition, you can conveniently use the `+` operator or the `format!` macro to concatenate `String` values.

## Appending to a String with `push_str`
We can grow a `String` by using the `push_str` method to append a string slice:
```rust
let mut s = String::from("foo");
s.push_str("bar");
```
The `push_str` method takes a string slice because we don’t necessarily want to take ownership of the parameter. For example:
```rust
let mut s1 = String::from("foo");
let s2 = "bar";
s1.push_str(s2);
println!("s2 is {s2}");
```
If the `push_str` method took ownership of `s2`, we wouldn’t be able to print its value on the last line. However, this code works as we’d expect!

## Appending to a String with `push`
The `push` method takes a single character as a parameter and adds it to the `String`. The following adds the letter “l” to a `String` using the `push` method:
```rust
let mut s = String::from("lo");
s.push('l');
```
As a result, `s` will contain `lol`.

## Concatenation with the `+` Operator
Often, you’ll want to combine two existing strings. One way to do so is to use the `+` operator, as:
```rust
let s1 = String::from("Hello, ");
let s2 = String::from("world!");
let s3 = s1 + &s2; // note s1 has been moved here and can no longer be used
```

The string `s3` will contain `Hello, world!`. The reason `s1` is no longer valid after the addition, and the reason we used a reference to `s2`, has to do with the signature of the method that’s called when we use the `+` operator. The `+` operator uses the add method, whose signature looks something like this:
```rust
fn add(self, s: &str) -> String {
```

Because `self` does *NOT* have an `&`. This means `s1` in the previous example will be moved into the `add` call and will no longer be valid after that. So although `let s3 = s1 + &s2;` looks like it will copy both strings and create a new one, this statement actually takes ownership of `s1`, appends a copy of the contents of `s2`, and then returns ownership of the result. In other words, it looks like it’s making a lot of copies but isn’t; the implementation is more efficient than copying.

If we need to concatenate multiple strings, the behavior of the `+` operator gets unwieldy:
```rust
let s1 = String::from("tic");
let s2 = String::from("tac");
let s3 = String::from("toe");
let s = s1 + "-" + &s2 + "-" + &s3;
```

## Concatenation with the `format!` Macro
For more complicated string combining, we can instead use the `format!` macro:
```rust
    let s1 = String::from("tic");
    let s2 = String::from("tac");
    let s3 = String::from("toe");
    let s = format!("{s1}-{s2}-{s3}");
```
This code also sets `s` to `tic-tac-toe`. The `format!` macro works like `println!`, but instead of printing the output to the screen, it returns a `String` with the contents. The version of the code using `format!` is much easier to read, and the code generated by the `format!` macro uses references so that this call doesn’t take ownership of any of its parameters.

# Indexing into Strings
In many other programming languages, accessing individual characters in a string by referencing them by index is a valid and common operation. However, if you try to access parts of a `String` using indexing syntax in Rust, you’ll get an error:
```rust
let s1 = String::from("hello");
let h = s1[0];
```
> The error and the note tell the story: Rust strings don’t support indexing. But why not? To answer that question, we need to discuss how Rust stores strings in memory.

## Internal Representation
A String is a wrapper over a `Vec<u8>`. Let’s look at some of our properly encoded UTF-8 example:
```rust
let hello = String::from("Hola");
```
* In this case, len will be 4, which means the vector storing the string “Hola” is 4 bytes long. Each of these letters takes 1 byte when encoded in UTF-8.

```rust
let hello = String::from("Здравствуйте");
```
* Asked how long the string is, you might say 12. In fact, Rust’s answer is 24: that’s the number of bytes it takes to encode “Здравствуйте” in UTF-8, because each Unicode scalar value in that string takes 2 bytes of storage. 

> The answer, then, is that to avoid returning an unexpected value and causing bugs that might not be discovered immediately, Rust doesn’t compile this code at all and prevents misunderstandings early in the development process.

## Bytes and Scalar Values and Grapheme Clusters! Oh My!
Another point about UTF-8 is that there are actually three relevant ways to look at strings from Rust’s perspective: as bytes, scalar values, and grapheme clusters (the closest thing to what we would call letters).

If we look at the Hindi word “नमस्ते” written in the Devanagari script, it is stored as a vector of `u8` values that looks like this:
```rust
[224, 164, 168, 224, 164, 174, 224, 164, 184, 224, 165, 141, 224, 164, 164,
224, 165, 135]
```

That’s 18 bytes and is how computers ultimately store this data. If we look at them as Unicode scalar values, which are what Rust’s `char` type is, those bytes look like this:
```rust
['न', 'म', 'स', '्', 'त', 'े']
```

There are six `char` values here, but the fourth and sixth are not letters: they’re diacritics that don’t make sense on their own. Finally, if we look at them as grapheme clusters, we’d get what a person would call the four letters that make up the Hindi word:
```rust
["न", "म", "स्", "ते"]
```

Rust provides different ways of interpreting the raw string data that computers store so that each program can choose the interpretation it needs, no matter what human language the data is in.

> A final reason Rust doesn’t allow us to index into a `String` to get a character is that indexing operations are expected to always take constant time (O(1)). But it isn’t possible to guarantee that performance with a `String`, because Rust would have to walk through the contents from the beginning to the index to determine how many valid characters there were.

# Slicing Strings
Indexing into a string is often a bad idea because it’s not clear what the return type of the string-indexing operation should be: a byte value, a character, a grapheme cluster, or a string slice. If you really need to use indices to create string slices, therefore, Rust asks you to be more specific.

Rather than indexing using [] with a single number, you can use [] with a range to create a string slice containing particular bytes:
```rust
let hello = "Здравствуйте";
let s = &hello[0..4];
```
Here, `s` will be a `&str` that contains the first 4 bytes of the string. Earlier, we mentioned that each of these characters was 2 bytes, which means `s` will be `Зд`.

If we were to try to slice only part of a character’s bytes with something like `&hello[0..1]`, Rust would panic at runtime in the same way as if an invalid index were accessed in a vector.
> You should use ranges to create string slices with caution, because doing so can crash your program.

# Iterating Over Strings
The best way to operate on pieces of strings is to be explicit about whether you want characters or bytes. 

For individual Unicode scalar values, use the `chars` method. Calling `chars` on “Зд” separates out and returns two values of type char, and you can iterate over the result to access each element:
```rust
for c in "Зд".chars() {
    print!("{c} ");
}
```
This code will print the following:
```rust
З д
```
Alternatively, the `bytes` method returns each raw byte, which might be appropriate for your domain:
```rust
for b in "Зд".bytes() {
    println!("{b} ");
}
```
This code will print the four bytes that make up this string:
```rust
208 151 208 180
```
But be sure to remember that valid Unicode scalar values may be made up of more than 1 byte.

> Getting grapheme clusters from strings as with the Devanagari script is complex, so this functionality is not provided by the standard library. Crates are available on `crates.io` if this is the functionality you need.

# Summary - Strings Are Not So Simple
To summarize, strings are complicated. Different programming languages make different choices about how to present this complexity to the programmer. Rust has chosen to make the correct handling of `String` data the default behavior for all Rust programs, which means programmers have to put more thought into handling UTF-8 data upfront. This trade-off exposes more of the complexity of strings than is apparent in other programming languages, but it prevents you from having to handle errors involving non-ASCII characters later in your development life cycle.

The good news is that the standard library offers a lot of functionality built off the `String` and `&str` types to help handle these complex situations correctly. Be sure to check out the documentation for useful methods like `contains` for searching in a string and `replace` for substituting parts of a string with another string.