# Mutability
Mutability can be very useful, and can make code more convenient to write. Although variables are immutable by default, you can make them mutable by adding `mut` in front of the variable name.
```rust
// src/main.ts
fn main() {
    let mut x = 5;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
    x = 6;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```
When we run the program now, we get this:
```bash
The value of x is: 5
The value of x is: 6
```

# Constants
Like immutable variables, constants are values that are bound to a name and are not allowed to change, but there are a few differences between constants and variables.

1. First, you aren’t allowed to use `mut` with constants. Constants aren’t just immutable by default — they’re **always immutable**. You declare constants using the `const` keyword instead of the `let` keyword, and the type of the value **must be annotated**.
    >  We’ll cover types and type annotations in the next section, so don’t worry about the details right now. Just know that you must always annotate the type.

2. **Constants can be declared in any scope**, including the global scope, which makes them useful for values that many parts of code need to know about.

3. The last difference is that constants may be set only to a **constant expression**, NOT the result of a value that could only be computed at runtime.

Here’s an example of a constant declaration:
```rust
const THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS: u32 = 60 * 60 * 3;
```

# Tips
> Constants are valid for the entire time a program runs, within the scope in which they were declared. This property makes constants useful for values in your application domain that multiple parts of the program might need to know about, such as the maximum number of points any player of a game is allowed to earn, or the speed of light.

> Naming hardcoded values used throughout your program as constants is useful in conveying the meaning of that value to future maintainers of the code. It also helps to have only one place in your code you would need to change if the hardcoded value needed to be updated in the future.

