# Enums and Pattern Matching
In this chapter we’ll look at **enumerations**, also referred to as enums. Enums allow you to define a type by enumerating its possible **variants**. First, we’ll define and use an enum to show how an enum can encode meaning along with data. Next, we’ll explore a particularly useful enum, called `Option`, which expresses that a value can be either something or nothing. Then we’ll look at how pattern matching in the `match` expression makes it easy to run different code for different values of an enum. Finally, we’ll cover how the `if let` construct is another convenient and concise idiom available to handle enums in your code.

# Defining an Enum
Let’s look at a situation we might want to express in code and see why enums are useful and more appropriate than structs in this case. Say we need to work with IP addresses. Currently, two major standards are used for IP addresses: version four and version six. Because these are the only possibilities for an IP address that our program will come across, we can enumerate all possible variants, which is where enumeration gets its name.

Any IP address can be either a version four or a version six address, but not both at the same time. That property of IP addresses makes the enum data structure appropriate, because an enum value can only be one of its variants. Both version four and version six addresses are still fundamentally IP addresses, so they should be treated as the same type when the code is handling situations that apply to any kind of IP address.

We can express this concept in code by defining an `IpAddrKind` enumeration and listing the possible kinds an IP address can be, `V4` and `V6`:
```rust
enum IpAddrKind {
    V4,
    V6,
}
```
> `IpAddrKind` is now a custom data type that we can use elsewhere in our code.

## Enum Values
We can create instances of each of the two variants of `IpAddrKind` like this:
```rust
let four = IpAddrKind::V4;
let six = IpAddrKind::V6;
```

Note that the variants of the enum are namespaced under its identifier, and we use a double colon to separate the two. This is useful because now both values `IpAddrKind::V4` and `IpAddrKind::V6` are of the same type: `IpAddrKind`. We can then, for instance, define a function that takes any `IpAddrKind`:
```rust
fn route(ip_kind: IpAddrKind) {}

fn main() {
    route(IpAddrKind::V4);
    route(IpAddrKind::V6);
}
```

# Enum vs. Struct
Using enums has even more advantages. Thinking more about our IP address type, at the moment we don’t have a way to store the actual IP address data; we only know what *kind* it is. you might be tempted to tackle this problem with `struct` as:
```rust
enum IpAddrKind {
    V4,
    V6,
}

struct IpAddr {
    kind: IpAddrKind,
    address: String,
}

let home = IpAddr {
    kind: IpAddrKind::V4,
    address: String::from("127.0.0.1"),
};

let loopback = IpAddr {
    kind: IpAddrKind::V6,
    address: String::from("::1"),
};
```

However, representing the same concept using just an enum is more concise: rather than an enum inside a struct, **we can also put data directly into each enum variant**. This new definition of the `IpAddr` enum says that both `V4` and `V6` variants will have associated `String` values:
```rust
enum IpAddr {
    V4(String),
    V6(String),
}

let home = IpAddr::V4(String::from("127.0.0.1"));
let loopback = IpAddr::V6(String::from("::1"));
```

There’s another advantage to using an enum rather than a struct: **each variant can have different types and amounts of associated data**. Version four type IP addresses will always have four numeric components that will have values between 0 and 255. If we wanted to store `V4` addresses as four `u8` values but still express `V6` addresses as one `String` value, we wouldn’t be able to with a struct. Enums handle this case with ease:
```rust
enum IpAddr {
    V4(u8, u8, u8, u8),
    V6(String),
}

let home = IpAddr::V4(127, 0, 0, 1);
let loopback = IpAddr::V6(String::from("::1"));
```

## Another Example 
Let’s look at another example of an enum. This one has a wide variety of types embedded in its variants:
```rust
enum Message {
    Quit,
    Move { x: i32, y: i32 },
    Write(String),
    ChangeColor(i32, i32, i32),
}
```
This enum has four variants with different types:
* `Quit` has no data associated with it at all.
* `Move` has named fields like a struct does.
* `Write` includes a single `String`.
* `ChangeColor` includes three `i32` values.

The following structs could hold the same data that the previous enum vairants hold:
```rust
struct QuitMessage; // unit struct
struct MoveMessage { x: i32, y: i32 } // struct
struct WriteMessage(String); // tuple struct
struct ChangeColorMessage(i32, i32, i32); // tuple struct
```
> But if we used the different structs, which each have their own type, we couldn’t as easily define a function to take any of these kinds of messages.

Using enum, we can simply solve the above problem as:
```rust
fn take_message(msg: Message) {}
```

## `impl` to Enums
There is one more similarity between enums and structs: just as we’re able to define methods on structs using `impl`, we’re also able to define methods on enums. Here’s a method named call that we could define on our `Message` enum:
```rust
impl Message {
    fn call(&self) {}
}

let m = Message::Write(String::from("hello"));
m.call();
```

Let’s look at another enum in the standard library that is very common and useful: `Option`.