# The `match` Expression
Rust has an extremely powerful control flow construct called `match` that allows you to compare a value against a series of patterns and then execute code based on which pattern matches. Patterns can be made up of literal values, variable names, wildcards, and many other things; Chapter 18 covers all the different kinds of patterns and what they do. The power of `match` comes from the expressiveness of the patterns and the fact that the compiler confirms that all possible cases are handled.

We can write a function that takes an unknown United States coin and, in a similar way as the counting machine, determines which coin it is and returns its value in cents:
```rust
enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter,
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => 1,
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}
```

The above `match` expression has four arms. An arm has two parts: a pattern and some code. The first arm here has a pattern that is the value `Coin::Penny` and then the `=>` operator that separates the pattern and the code to run. The code in this case is just the value `1`. Each arm is separated from the next with a comma.

> When the `match` expression executes, it compares the resulting value against the pattern of each arm, **in order**. If a pattern matches the value, the code associated with that pattern is executed. If that pattern doesn’t match the value, execution continues to the next arm.

**The code associated with each arm is an expression**, and the resulting value of the expression in the matching arm is the value that gets returned for the entire match expression.

If you want to run multiple lines of code in a match arm, you must use curly brackets, and the comma following the arm is then optional:
```rust
fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => {
            println!("Lucky penny!");
            1
        }
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}
```

# Patterns that Bind to Values
Another useful feature of match arms is that they can bind to the parts of the values that match the pattern. This is how **we can extract values out of enum variants**.

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
enum CoinValue {
    One,
    Five,
    Ten,
    TwtentyFive,
}

enum Coin {
    Penny(CoinValue),
    Nickel(CoinValue),
    Dime(CoinValue),
    Quarter(CoinValue),
}
fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny(value) => println!("The value is: {:?}", value),
        Coin::Nickel(value) => println!("The value is: {:?}", value),
        Coin::Dime(value) => println!("The value is: {:?}", value),
        Coin::Quarter(value) => println!("The value is: {:?}", value),
    }
}
```
In the match expression for this code, we add a variable named `value` for each arm to the pattern that matches values of the variant `CoinValue`. When the arm is matched, the `value` variable will bind to the value of that `Coin`'s `CoinValue`.

# Matching with `Option<T>`
In the previous section, we wanted to get the inner `T` value out of the Some case when using `Option<T>`; we can also handle `Option<T>` using `match` as we did with the `Coin` enum! Instead of comparing coins, we’ll compare the variants of `Option<T>`, but the way that the `match` expression works remains the same:
```rust
fn plus_one(x: Option<i32>) -> Option<i32> {
    match x {
        None => None,
        Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
    }
}

let five = Some(5);
let six = plus_one(five);
let none = plus_one(None);
```

> Combining `match` and enums is useful in many situations. You’ll see this pattern a lot in Rust code: `match` against an enum, bind a variable to the data inside, and then execute code based on it. It’s a bit tricky at first, but once you get used to it, you’ll wish you had it in all languages. It’s consistently a user favorite.

# Matches Are Exhaustive
There’s one other aspect of `match` we need to discuss: the arms’ patterns must cover all possibilities. Consider this version of our `plus_one` function, which has a bug and won’t compile:
```rust
fn plus_one(x: Option<i32>) -> Option<i32> {
    match x {
        Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
    }
}
```
We didn’t handle the `None` case, so this code will cause a bug. Luckily, it’s a bug Rust knows how to catch.

> Rust knows that we didn’t cover every possible case and even knows which pattern we forgot! Matches in Rust are *exhaustive*: we must exhaust every last possibility in order for the code to be valid. Especially in the case of `Option<T>`, when Rust prevents us from forgetting to explicitly handle the `None` case, it protects us from assuming that we have a value when we might have null, thus making the billion-dollar mistake discussed earlier impossible.

# Catch-all Patterns
Using enums, we can also take special actions for a few particular values, but for all other values take one default action:
```rust
fn noop() {}

fn main() {
    let dice_roll = 9;
    match dice_roll {
        3 => noop(),
        7 => noop(),
        other => noop(),
    }
}
```
For the last arm that covers every other possible value, the pattern is the variable we’ve chosen to name `other`. This is called **catch-all pattern**.
> Note that we have to put the catch-all arm last because the patterns are evaluated in order. If we put the catch-all arm earlier, the other arms would never run, so Rust will warn us if we add arms after a catch-all!

# The `_` Placeholder
Rust also has a pattern we can use when we want a catch-all but don’t want to *use* the value in the catch-all pattern: `_` is a special pattern that matches any value and does not bind to that value. This tells Rust we aren’t going to use the value, so Rust won’t warn us about an unused variable:
```rust
fn noop() {}

fn main() {
    let dice_roll = 9;
    match dice_roll {
        3 => noop(),
        7 => noop(),
        _ => noop(),
    }
}
```
This example also meets the exhaustiveness requirement because we’re explicitly ignoring all other values in the last arm; we haven’t forgotten anything.