# Storing Lists of Values with Vectors
The first collection type we’ll look at is `Vec<T>`, also known as a *vector*. Vectors allow you to store more than one value in a single data structure that puts all the values next to each other in memory. Vectors can only store values of the same type. They are useful when you have a list of items, such as the lines of text in a file or the prices of items in a shopping cart.

# Creating a New Vector
```rust
let v1: Vec<i32> = Vec::new();
```
To create a new empty vector, we call the `Vec::new` function. Note that we added a type annotation here. Because we aren’t inserting any values into this vector, Rust doesn’t know what kind of elements we intend to store. This is an important point. Vectors are implemented using generics.

More often, you’ll create a `Vec<T>` with initial values and Rust will infer the type of value you want to store, so you rarely need to do this type annotation. Rust conveniently provides the `vec!` macro, which will create a new vector that holds the values you give it:
```rust
let v = vec![1, 2, 3];
```
> Because we’ve given initial `i32` values, Rust can infer that the type of v is `Vec<i32>`, and the type annotation isn’t necessary. The compiler will infer the correct type for us.

# Updating a Vector
To create a vector and then add elements to it, we can use the `push` method:
```rust
let mut v = Vec::new();
v.push(5);
v.push(6);
v.push(7);
```
As with any variable, if we want to be able to change its value, we need to make it mutable using the `mut` keyword.

# Reading Elements from Vector
There are two ways to reference a value stored in a vector: via indexing or using the `get` method:
```rust
let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

let third: &i32 = &v[2];
println!("The third element is {third}");

let third: Option<&i32> = v.get(2);
match third {
    Some(third) => println!("The third element is {third}"),
    None => println!("There is no third element."),
}
```
Using `&` and `[]` gives us a reference to the element at the index value. When we use the `get` method with the index passed as an argument, we get an `Option<&T>` that we can use with `match`.

## Potential Panics
The reason Rust provides these two ways to reference an element is so you can choose how the program behaves when you try to use an index value outside the range of existing elements:
```rust
let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

let does_not_exist = &v[100]; // ❌ PANICS
let does_not_exist = v.get(100);
```
When we run this code, the first `[]` method will cause the program to panic because it references a nonexistent element

When the `get` method is passed an index that is outside the vector, it returns `None` without panicking. You would use this method if accessing an element beyond the range of the vector may happen occasionally under normal circumstances.

# Common issues With Ownership
```rust
let mut v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
let first = &v[0];
v.push(6); // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
println!("The first element is: {first}");
```
Recall the rule that states you can’t have mutable and immutable references in the same scope.

> why should a reference to the first element care about changes at the end of the vector? This error is due to the way vectors work: because vectors put the values next to each other in memory, adding a new element onto the end of the vector might require allocating new memory and copying the old elements to the new space, if there isn’t enough room to put all the elements next to each other where the vector is currently stored. In that case, the reference to the first element would be pointing to deallocated memory. The borrowing rules prevent programs from ending up in that situation.

# Iterating over a Vector
To access each element in a vector in turn, we would iterate through all of the elements rather than use indices to access one at a time. The example shows how to use a `for` loop to get immutable references to each element in a vector of `i32` values and print them:
```rust
let v = vec![100, 32, 57];
for i in &v {
    println!("{i}");
}
```
We can also iterate over mutable references to each element in a mutable vector in order to make changes to all the elements:
```rust
let mut v = vec![100, 32, 57];
for i in &mut v {
    *i += 50;
}
```
> To change the value that the mutable reference refers to, we have to use the `*` dereference operator to get to the value in `i` before we can use the `+=` operator.

# Combine Enums and Vector
Vectors can only store values that are the same type. This can be inconvenient; there are definitely use cases for needing to store a list of items of different types. Fortunately, the variants of an enum are defined under the same enum type, so when we need one type to represent elements of different types, we can define and use an enum:
```rust
enum SpreadsheetCell {
    Int(i32),
    Float(f64),
    Text(String),
}

let row = vec![
    SpreadsheetCell::Int(3),
    SpreadsheetCell::Text(String::from("blue")),
    SpreadsheetCell::Float(10.12),
];
```

# Dropping a Vector
Like any other `struct`, a vector is freed when it goes out of scope:
```rust
{
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4];
    // do stuff with v
} // <- v goes out of scope and is freed here
```
When the vector gets dropped, all of its contents are also dropped, meaning the integers it holds will be cleaned up. The borrow checker ensures that any references to contents of a vector are only used while the vector itself is valid.