# Storing Keys with Associated Values in Hash Maps
The type `HashMap<K, V>` stores a mapping of keys of type `K` to values of type `V` using a *hashing function*, which determines how it places these keys and values into memory. Many programming languages support this kind of data structure, but they often use a different name, such as hash, map, object, hash table, dictionary, or associative array, just to name a few.

Hash maps are useful when you want to look up data not by using an index, as you can with vectors, but by using a key that can be of any type.

# Creating a New Hash Map
One way to create an empty hash map is using `new` and adding elements with `insert`:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;
let mut scores = HashMap::new();
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);
```

Note that we need to first `use` the `HashMap` from the collections portion of the standard library.
> This one is relatively the least often used, so it’s not included in the features brought into scope automatically in the prelude.

Just like vectors, hash maps store their data on the heap. This `HashMap` has keys of type `String` and values of type `i32`. Like vectors, hash maps are homogeneous: all of the keys must have the same type as each other, and all of the values must have the same type.

# Accessing Values in a Hash Map
We can get a value out of the hash map by providing its key to the `get` method:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut scores = HashMap::new();
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

let team_name = String::from("Blue");
let score = scores.get(&team_name).copied().unwrap_or(0);
```

Here, `score` will have the value that’s associated with the Blue team, and the result will be `10`. The get method returns an `Option<&V>`; if there’s no value for that key in the hash map, `get` will return `None`. This program handles the `Option` by calling `copied` to get an `Option<i32>` rather than an `Option<&i32>`, then `unwrap_or` to set `score` to `0` if `scores` doesn't have an entry for the key.

We can iterate over each key/value pair in a hash map in a similar manner as we do with vectors, using a `for` loop:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut scores = HashMap::new();
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

for (key, value) in &scores {
    println!("{key}: {value}");
}
```
This code will print each pair in an arbitrary order:
```rust
Yellow: 50
Blue: 10
```

# Hash Maps and Ownership
For types that implement the `Copy` trait, like `i32`, the values are copied into the hash map. For owned values like `String`, the values will be moved and the hash map will be the owner of those values:
```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let field_name = String::from("Favorite color");
    let field_value = String::from("Blue");

    let mut map = HashMap::new();
    map.insert(field_name, field_value);
    // field_name and field_value are invalid at this point
```
> If we insert references to values into the hash map, the values won’t be moved into the hash map. The values that the references point to must be valid for at least as long as the hash map is valid. We'll talk more about these issues in lifetimes.

# Updating a Hash Map
When you want to change the data in a hash map, you have to decide how to handle the case when a key already has a value assigned. You could replace the old value with the new value, completely disregarding the old value. You could keep the old value and ignore the new value, only adding the new value if the key doesn’t already have a value. Or you could combine the old value and the new value. Let’s look at how to do each of these!

## Overwriting a Value
If we insert a key and a value into a hash map and then insert that same key with a different value, the value associated with that key will be replaced. Even though the code in the following calls insert twice, the hash map will only contain one key/value pair because we’re inserting the value for the Blue team’s key both times:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut scores = HashMap::new();
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 25);

println!("{:?}", scores);
```
This code will print `{"Blue": 25}`. The original value of `10` has been overwritten.

# Adding a Key and Value Only If a Key Isn’t Present
It’s common to check whether a particular key already exists in the hash map with a value then take the following actions: if the key does exist in the hash map, the existing value should remain the way it is. If the key doesn’t exist, insert it and a value for it.

Hash maps have a special API for this called `entry` that takes the key you want to check as a parameter. The return value of the `entry` method is an enum called `Entry` that represents a value that might or might not exist.

Let’s say we want to check whether the key for the Yellow team has a value associated with it. If it doesn’t, we want to insert the value 50, and the same for the Blue team. Using the `entry` API, the code looks like:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let mut scores = HashMap::new();
scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);

scores.entry(String::from("Yellow")).or_insert(50);
scores.entry(String::from("Blue")).or_insert(50);

println!("{:?}", scores);
```
> The `or_insert` method on `Entry` is defined to return a mutable reference to the value for the corresponding `Entry` key if that key exists, and if not, inserts the parameter as the new value for this key and returns a mutable reference to the new value. This technique is much cleaner than writing the logic ourselves and, in addition, plays more nicely with the borrow checker.

Running the code will print `{"Yellow": 50, "Blue": 10}`.

## Updating a Value Based on the Old Value
Another common use case for hash maps is to look up a key’s value and then update it based on the old value. We use a hash map with the words as keys and increment the value to keep track of how many times we’ve seen that word. If it’s the first time we’ve seen a word:
```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let text = "hello world wonderful world";
let mut map = HashMap::new();
for word in text.split_whitespace() {
    let count = map.entry(word).or_insert(0);
    *count += 1;
}

println!("{:?}", map);
```
This code will print `{"world": 2, "hello": 1, "wonderful": 1}`. You might see the same key/value pairs printed in a different order.

# Hashing Functions
By default, `HashMap` uses a hashing function called *SipHash* that can provide resistance to Denial of Service (DoS) attacks involving hash tables1. This is not the fastest hashing algorithm available, but the trade-off for better security that comes with the drop in performance is worth it. If you profile your code and find that the default hash function is too slow for your purposes, you can switch to another function by specifying a different hasher. A hasher is a type that implements the `BuildHasher` trait. You don’t necessarily have to implement your own hasher from scratch; `crates.io` has libraries shared by other Rust users that provide hashers implementing many common hashing algorithms.