# Treating Smart Pointers Like Regular References with the `Deref` Trait
Implementing the `Deref` trait allows you to customize the behavior of the dereference operator (`*`).

## Comparing Between Type and Reference Type
As the following code shown:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    let y = &x;
    assert_eq!(5, x);
    assert_eq!(5, y); // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
}
```
* Since we set `y` equal to a reference to `x`. Now `y` is a pointer that points to the actual value, which is the value of `x`, equals to `5`. But the variable `y` itself does not equal to `5` because it is a reference, which is a different type than an `i32` value, and Rust does not allow us to do that.
* We have to use `*y` to follow the reference to the value it’s pointing to (hence *dereference*) so the compiler can compare the actual value. Thus, the forth line should be rewritten to `assert_eq!(5, *y);`.

# Using `Box<T>` Like a Reference
We can also rewrite the code use a `Box<T>` instead of a reference:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    let y = Box::new(x);
    assert_eq!(5, x);
    assert_eq!(5, *y);
}
```

# Defining Our Own Smart Pointer
The `Box<T>` type is ultimately defined as a tuple struct with one element. We’ll also define a `new` function to match the `new` function defined on `Box<T>`:
```rust
struct MyBox<T>(T);
impl<T> MyBox<T> {
    fn new(x: T) -> MyBox<T> {
        MyBox(x)
    }
}
```

## Implementing the `Deref` Trait
The `Deref` trait, provided by the standard library, requires us to implement one method named `deref` that borrows `self` and returns a reference to the inner data:
```rust
use std::ops::Deref;

impl<T> Deref for MyBox<T> {
    type Target = T;
    fn deref(&self) -> &Self::Target {
        &self.0
    }
}
```
* The `type Target = T;` syntax defines an associated type for the `Deref` trait to use. Associated types are a slightly different way of declaring a generic parameter, but you don’t need to worry about them for now.

* We fill in the body of the `deref` method with `&self.0` so `deref` returns a reference to the value we want to access with the `*` operator.

> When we entered `*y`, behind the scenes Rust actually ran this code: `*(y.deref())`.

# Deref coercion

***Deref coercion*** converts a reference to a type that implements the `Deref` trait into a reference to another type.

* Deref coercion is a convenience Rust performs on arguments to functions and methods, and works only on types that implement the `Deref` trait.

> For example, deref coercion can convert `&String` to `&str` because `String` implements the `Deref` trait such that it returns `&str`.

> Deref coercion was added to Rust so that programmers writing function and method calls don’t need to add as many explicit references and dereferences with `&` and `*`. The deref coercion feature also lets us write more code that can work for either references or smart pointers.

For example, as the following code shown:

```rust
fn main() {
    let m = MyBox::new(String::from("Rust"));
    hello(&m);
}
```

* The above code invokes `Deref` function twice. One of the `Deref` function is what we just implemented on our own smart pointet type `MyBox`. The other `Deref` function is the `Deref` function from the `String` type which is the standard library provided.