# Running Code on Cleanup with the `Drop` Trait

The second trait important to the smart pointer pattern is `Drop`, which lets you customize what happens when a value is about to go out of scope. You can provide an implementation for the `Drop` trait on any type, and that code can be used to release resources like files or network connections.

We’re introducing `Drop` in the context of smart pointers because the functionality of the `Drop` trait is almost always used when implementing a smart pointer.

* For example, when a `Box<T>` is dropped it will deallocate the space on the heap that the box points to.

> In some languages, for some types, the programmer must call code to free memory or resources every time they finish using an instance of those types. Examples include file handles, sockets, or locks. If they forget, the system might become overloaded and crash.
>
> In Rust, you can specify that a particular bit of code be run whenever a value goes out of scope, and the compiler will insert this code automatically. As a result, you don’t need to be careful about placing cleanup code everywhere in a program that an instance of a particular type is finished with—you still won’t leak resources!

You specify the code to run when a value goes out of scope by implementing the `Drop` trait. The `Drop` trait requires you to implement one method named `drop` that takes a mutable reference to `self`:

```rust
struct CustomSmartPointer {
    data: String,
}

impl Drop for CustomSmartPointer {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        println!("Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `{}`!", self.data);
    }
}

fn main() {
    let c = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("my stuff"),
    };
    let d = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("other stuff"),
    };
    println!("CustomSmartPointers created.");
}
```

When we run this program, we’ll see the following output:

```txt
$ cargo run
   Compiling drop-example v0.1.0 (file:///projects/drop-example)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.60s
     Running `target/debug/drop-example`
CustomSmartPointers created.
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `other stuff`!
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `my stuff`!
```

* Rust automatically called `drop` for us when our instances went out of scope, calling the code we specified. Variables are dropped **in the reverse order of their creation**, so `d` was dropped before `c`.

# Dropping a Value Early with `std::mem::drop`

> Unfortunately, it’s not straightforward to disable the automatic `drop` functionality. Disabling `drop` isn’t usually necessary; the whole point of the `Drop` trait is that it’s taken care of automatically.

Occasionally, however, you might want to clean up a value early. One example is when using smart pointers that manage locks: you might want to force the `drop` method that releases the lock so that other code in the same scope can acquire the lock. 

* Rust doesn’t let you call the `Drop` trait’s `drop` method manually; instead you have to call the `std::mem::drop` function provided by the standard library if you want to force a value to be dropped before the end of its scope.

> Rust doesn’t let us call `drop` explicitly because Rust would still automatically call `drop` on the value at the end of `main`. This would cause a ***double free*** error because Rust would be trying to clean up the same value twice.

The `std::mem::drop` function is different from the `drop` method in the `Drop` trait. We call it by passing as an argument the value we want to force drop. The function is in the prelude:

```rust
fn main() {
    let c = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("some data"),
    };
    println!("CustomSmartPointer created.");
    drop(c);
    println!("CustomSmartPointer dropped before the end of main.");
}
```

Running this code will print the following:

```txt
$ cargo run
   Compiling drop-example v0.1.0 (file:///projects/drop-example)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.73s
     Running `target/debug/drop-example`
CustomSmartPointer created.
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `some data`!
CustomSmartPointer dropped before the end of main.
```

