# Preventing Reference Cycles: Turning an `Rc<T>` into a `Weak<T>`

So far, we’ve demonstrated that calling `Rc::clone` increases the `strong_count` of an `Rc<T>` instance, and an `Rc<T>` instance is only cleaned up if its `strong_count` is 0. You can also create a *weak reference* to the value within an `Rc<T>` instance by calling `Rc::downgrade` and passing a reference to the `Rc<T>`. Strong references are how you can share ownership of an `Rc<T>` instance. Weak references don’t express an ownership relationship, and their count doesn’t affect when an `Rc<T>` instance is cleaned up. They won’t cause a reference cycle because any cycle involving some weak references will be broken once the strong reference count of values involved is 0.

When you call `Rc::downgrade`, you get a smart pointer of type `Weak<T>`. Instead of increasing the `strong_count` in the `Rc<T>` instance by 1, calling `Rc::downgrade` increases the `weak_count` by 1. The `Rc<T>` type uses `weak_count` to keep track of how many `Weak<T>` references exist, similar to `strong_count`. The difference is the `weak_count` doesn’t need to be 0 for the `Rc<T>` instance to be cleaned up.

> Because the value that `Weak<T>` references might have been dropped, to do anything with the value that a `Weak<T>` is pointing to, you must make sure the value still exists. Do this by calling the `upgrade` method on a `Weak<T>` instance, which will return an `Option<Rc<T>>`. You’ll get a result of `Some` if the `Rc<T>` value has not been dropped yet and a result of `None` if the `Rc<T>` value has been dropped. Because `upgrade` returns an `Option<Rc<T>>`, Rust will ensure that the `Some` case and the `None` case are handled, and there won’t be an invalid pointer.

# Example
To start, we’ll build a tree with nodes that know about their child nodes. We’ll create a struct named `Node` that holds its own `i32` value as well as references to its children `Node` values.
## Creating a Tree Data Structure: a Node with Child Nodes
```rust
use std::cell::RefCell;
use std::rc::Rc;

#[derive(Debug)]
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    children: RefCell<Vec<Rc<Node>>>,
}
```

* We want a `Node` to own its children, and we want to share that ownership with variables so we can access each `Node` in the tree directly. To do this, we define the `Vec<T>` items to be values of type `Rc<Node>`. We also want to modify which nodes are children of another node, so we have a `RefCell<T>` in `children` around the `Vec<Rc<Node>>`.

## Adding a Reference from a Child to Its Parent

> To make the child node aware of its parent, we need to add a `parent` field to our `Node` struct definition. The trouble is in deciding what the type of `parent` should be. We know it can’t contain an `Rc<T>`, because that would create a reference cycle with `leaf.parent` pointing to `branch` and `branch.children` pointing to `leaf`, which would cause their `strong_count` values to never be 0.

Thinking about the relationships another way, a parent node should own its children: if a parent node is dropped, its child nodes should be dropped as well. However, a child should not own its parent: if we drop a child node, the parent should still exist. This is a case for weak references!

```rust
use std::cell::RefCell;
use std::rc::{Rc, Weak};

#[derive(Debug)]
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    parent: RefCell<Weak<Node>>,
    children: RefCell<Vec<Rc<Node>>>,
}
```

We now will write `main.rs` to test our code:

```rust
fn main() {
    let leaf = Rc::new(Node {
        value: 3,
        parent: RefCell::new(Weak::new()),
        children: RefCell::new(vec![]),
    });

    println!("leaf parent = {:?}", leaf.parent.borrow().upgrade());

    let branch = Rc::new(Node {
        value: 5,
        parent: RefCell::new(Weak::new()),
        children: RefCell::new(vec![Rc::clone(&leaf)]),
    });

    *leaf.parent.borrow_mut() = Rc::downgrade(&branch);

    println!("leaf parent = {:?}", leaf.parent.borrow().upgrade());
}
```

The output would be:

```rust
leaf parent = None
leaf parent = Some(
    Node { value: 5, parent: RefCell { value: (Weak) }, 
    children: RefCell { value: [Node { value: 3, parent: RefCell { value: (Weak) }, 
    children: RefCell { value: [] } }] } })
```

# Summary

This chapter covered how to use smart pointers to make different guarantees and trade-offs from those Rust makes by default with regular references. The `Box<T>` type has a known size and points to data allocated on the heap. The `Rc<T>` type keeps track of the number of references to data on the heap so that data can have multiple owners. The `RefCell<T>` type with its interior mutability gives us a type that we can use when we need an immutable type but need to change an inner value of that type; it also enforces the borrowing rules at runtime instead of at compile time.

Also discussed were the `Deref` and `Drop` traits, which enable a lot of the functionality of smart pointers. We explored reference cycles that can cause memory leaks and how to prevent them using `Weak<T>`.

If this chapter has piqued your interest and you want to implement your own smart pointers, check out [“The Rustonomicon”](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nomicon/index.html) for more useful information.

Next, we’ll talk about concurrency in Rust. You’ll even learn about a few new smart pointers.
