# Patterns

*Patterns* are a special syntax in Rust for matching against the structure of types, both complex and simple. Using patterns in conjunction with `match` expressions and other constructs gives you more control over a program’s control flow. A pattern consists of some combination of the following:

- Literals
- Destructured arrays, enums, structs, or tuples
- Variables
- Wildcards
- Placeholders

> Some example patterns include `x`, `(a, 3)`, and `Some(Color::Red)`. In the contexts in which patterns are valid, these components describe the shape of data. Our program then matches values against the patterns to determine whether it has the correct shape of data to continue running a particular piece of code.

This chapter is a reference on all things related to patterns. We’ll cover the valid places to use patterns, the difference between refutable and irrefutable patterns, and the different kinds of pattern syntax that you might see. By the end of the chapter, you’ll know how to use patterns to express many concepts in a clear way.

# `match` Arms

we use patterns in the arms of `match` expressions. Formally, `match` expressions are defined as the keyword `match`, a value to match on, and one or more match arms that consist of a pattern and an expression to run if the value matches that arm’s pattern, like this:

```rust
match VALUE {
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
}
```

```rust
match x {
    None => None,
    Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
}
```

* One requirement for `match` expressions is that they need to be *exhaustive* in the sense that all possibilities for the value in the `match` expression must be accounted for.
* he particular pattern `_` will match anything, but it never binds to a variable, so it’s often used in the last match arm. The `_` pattern can be useful when you want to ignore any value not specified.

# Conditional `if let` Expressions

We discussed how to use `if let` expressions mainly as a shorter way to write the equivalent of a `match` that only matches one case. Optionally, `if let` can have a corresponding `else` containing code to run if the pattern in the `if let` doesn’t match.

It’s also possible to mix and match `if let`, `else if`, and `else if let` expressions. Doing so gives us more flexibility than a `match` expression in which we can express only one value to compare with the patterns. Also, Rust doesn't require that the conditions in a series of `if let`, `else if`, `else if let` arms relate to each other:

```RUST
fn main() {
    let favorite_color: Option<&str> = None;
    let is_tuesday = false;
    let age: Result<u8, _> = "34".parse();

    if let Some(color) = favorite_color {
        println!("Using your favorite color, {color}, as the background");
    } else if is_tuesday {
        println!("Tuesday is green day!");
    } else if let Ok(age) = age {
        if age > 30 {
            println!("Using purple as the background color");
        } else {
            println!("Using orange as the background color");
        }
    } else {
        println!("Using blue as the background color");
    }
}
```

* You can see that `if let` can also introduce shadowed variables in the same way that `match` arms can.

# `while let` Conditional Loops

Similar in construction to `if let`, the `while let` conditional loop allows a `while` loop to run for as long as a pattern continues to match:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut stack = Vec::new();
    stack.push(1);
    stack.push(2);
    stack.push(3);
    while let Some(top) = stack.pop() {
        println!("{}", top);
    }
}
```

# `for` Loops

In a `for` loop, the value that directly follows the keyword `for` is a pattern. For example, in `for x in y` the `x` is the pattern:

```rust
fn main() {
    let v = vec!['a', 'b', 'c'];
    for (index, value) in v.iter().enumerate() {
        println!("{} is at index {}", value, index);
    }
}
```

# `let` Statements

Every time you've used a `let` statement like this you've been using patterns, although you might not have realized it! More formally, a `let` statement looks like this:

```RUST
let PATTERN = EXPRESSION;
```

> In statements like `let x = 5;` with a variable name in the `PATTERN` slot, the variable name is just a particularly simple form of a pattern. Rust compares the expression against the pattern and assigns any names it finds. So in the `let x = 5;` example, `x` is a pattern that means “bind what matches here to the variable `x`.” Because the name `x` is the whole pattern, this pattern effectively means “bind everything to the variable `x`, whatever the value is.”

# Function Parameters

We could match a tuple in a function’s arguments to the pattern:

```rust
fn print_coordinates(&(x, y): &(i32, i32)) {
    println!("Current location: ({}, {})", x, y);
}
fn main() {
    let point = (3, 5);
    print_coordinates(&point);
}
```

* We can also use patterns in closure parameter lists in the same way as in function parameter lists.

# Summary

At this point, you’ve seen several ways of using patterns, but patterns don’t work the same in every place we can use them. In some places, the patterns must be irrefutable; in other circumstances, they can be refutable. We’ll discuss these two concepts next.
