# Introduction to Macros

The term ***macro*** refers to a family of features in Rust: *declarative* macros with `macro_rules!` and three kinds of *procedural* macros:

- Custom `#[derive]` macros that specify code added with the `derive` attribute used on structs and enums
- Attribute-like macros that define custom attributes usable on any item
- Function-like macros that look like function calls but operate on the tokens specified as their argument

> We’ll talk about each of these in turn, but first, let’s look at why we even need macros when we already have functions.

# The Difference Between Macros and Functions

Fundamentally, macros are a way of writing code that writes other code, which is known as ***metaprogramming***. 

* Metaprogramming is useful for reducing the amount of code you have to write and maintain, which is also one of the roles of functions. However, macros have some additional powers that functions don’t.

A function signature must declare the number and type of parameters the function has. Macros, on the other hand, **can take a variable number of parameters**. Also, macros are expanded before the compiler interprets the meaning of the code, so a macro can, for example, implement a trait on a given type.

> ##### Downside
>
> The downside to implementing a macro instead of a function is that macro definitions are more complex than function definitions because you’re writing Rust code that writes Rust code. Due to this indirection, macro definitions are generally more difficult to read, understand, and maintain than function definitions.

* Another important difference between macros and functions is that you must define macros or bring them into scope *before* you call them in a file, as opposed to functions you can define anywhere and call anywhere.
