# Processing a Series of Items with Iterators
The iterator pattern allows you to perform some task on a sequence of items in turn. An iterator is responsible for the logic of iterating over each item and determining when the sequence has finished. When you use iterators, you don’t have to reimplement that logic yourself.

> In Rust, iterators are **lazy**, meaning they have no effect until you call methods that consume the iterator to use it up.

```rust
let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];
let v1_iter = v1.iter();
```
* This code by itself doesn’t do anything useful.

Here is a simple example that demonstrate how to use iterator in vector:
```rust
let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];
let v1_iter = v1.iter();
for val in v1_iter {
    println!("Got: {}", val);
}
```
> Iterators handle all that logic for you, cutting down on repetitive code you could potentially mess up. Iterators give you more flexibility to use the same logic with many different kinds of sequences, not just data structures you can index into, like vectors. Let’s examine how iterators do that.

# The `Iterator` Trait and the `next` Method
All iterators implement a trait named `Iterator` that is defined in the standard library. The definition of the trait looks like this:
```rust
#![allow(unused)]
pub trait Iterator {
    type Item;
    fn next(&mut self) -> Option<Self::Item>;
    // methods with default implementations elided
}
```
* Notice this definition uses some new syntax: `type Item` and `Self::Item`, which are defining an *associated type* with this trait.
* For now, all you need to know is that this code says implementing the `Iterator` trait requires that you also define an `Item` type, and this `Item` type is used in the return type of the `next` method. In other words, the `Item` type will be the type returned from the iterator.

We can call the `next` method on iterators directly:
```rust
let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];
let mut v1_iter = v1.iter();
assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&1));
assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&2));
assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), Some(&3));
assert_eq!(v1_iter.next(), None);
```
* Note that we needed to make `v1_iter` mutable: calling the `next` method on an iterator changes internal state that the iterator uses to keep track of where it is in the sequence.

> Also note that the values we get from the calls to `next` are immutable references to the values in the vector. The `iter` method produces an iterator over immutable references. If we want to create an iterator that takes ownership of `v1` and returns owned values, we can call `into_iter` instead of `iter`. Similarly, if we want to iterate over mutable references, we can call `iter_mut` instead of `iter`.
> 
# Methods that Consume the Iterator
Methods that call `next` are called *consuming adaptors*, because calling them uses up the iterator. One example is the `sum` method, which takes ownership of the iterator and iterates through the items by repeatedly calling `next`, thus consuming the iterator:
```rust
let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];
let v1_iter = v1.iter();
let total: i32 = v1_iter.sum();
assert_eq!(total, 6);
```
* We aren’t allowed to use `v1_iter` after the call to `sum` because `sum` takes ownership of the iterator we call it on.

# Methods that Produce Other Iterators
*Iterator adaptors* are methods defined on the `Iterator` trait that don’t consume the iterator. Instead, they produce different iterators by changing some aspect of the original iterator.

The following shows an example of calling the iterator adaptor method `map`, which takes a closure to call on each item as the items are iterated through. The `map` method returns a new iterator that produces the modified items:
```rust
let v1: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
let v2: Vec<_> = v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1).collect();
assert_eq!(v2, vec![2, 3, 4]);
```
