# Use Threads to Run Code Simultaneously

In most current operating systems, an executed program’s code is run in a *process*, and the operating system will manage multiple processes at once. Within a program, you can also have independent parts that run simultaneously. The features that run these independent parts are called ***threads***.

Splitting the computation in your program into multiple threads to run multiple tasks at the same time can improve performance, but it also adds complexity. Because threads can run simultaneously, there’s no inherent guarantee about the order in which parts of your code on different threads will run. This can lead to problems, such as:

- **Race conditions**, where threads are accessing data or resources in an inconsistent order.
- **Deadlocks**, where two threads are waiting for each other, preventing both threads from continuing.
- Bugs that happen only in certain situations and are hard to reproduce and fix reliably.

> Programming languages implement threads in a few different ways, and many operating systems provide an API the language can call for creating new threads. The Rust standard library uses a *1:1* model of thread implementation, whereby a program uses one operating system thread per one language thread.

# Creating a New Thread with `spawn`

To create a new thread, we call the `thread::spawn` function and pass it a closure containing the code we want to run in the new thread:

```rust
use std::thread;
use std::time::Duration;

fn main() {
    thread::spawn(|| {
        for i in 1..10 {
            println!("hi number {} from the spawned thread!", i);
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_millis(1));
        }
    });

    for i in 1..5 {
        println!("hi number {} from the main thread!", i);
        thread::sleep(Duration::from_millis(1));
    }
}
```

The output might be similar to the following:

```txt
hi number 1 from the main thread!
hi number 1 from the spawned thread!
hi number 2 from the main thread!
hi number 2 from the spawned thread!
hi number 3 from the main thread!
hi number 3 from the spawned thread!
hi number 4 from the main thread!
hi number 4 from the spawned thread!
hi number 5 from the spawned thread!
```



* **Note that when the main thread of a Rust program completes, all spawned threads are shut down, whether or not they have finished running**. The output from this program might be a little different every time.

* The threads will probably take turns, but that isn’t guaranteed: it depends on how your operating system schedules the threads. In this run, the main thread printed first, even though the print statement from the spawned thread appears first in the code. And even though we told the spawned thread to print until `i` is 9, it only got to 5 before the main thread shut down.

# `join` - Waiting for All Threads to Finish

We can save the return value of `thread::spawn` in a variable. The return type of `thread::spawn` is `JoinHandle`. A `JoinHandle` is an owned value that, when we call the `join` method on it, will wait for its thread to finish:

```rust
use std::thread;
use std::time::Duration;

fn main() {
    let handle = thread::spawn(|| {
        for i in 1..10 {
            println!("hi number {} from the spawned thread!", i);
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_millis(1));
        }
    });

    for i in 1..5 {
        println!("hi number {} from the main thread!", i);
        thread::sleep(Duration::from_millis(1));
    }

    handle.join().unwrap();
}
```

* Calling `join` on the handle blocks the thread currently running until the thread represented by the handle terminates. *Blocking* a thread means that thread is prevented from performing work or exiting.

# Using `move` Closures with Threads

We'll often use the `move` keyword with closures passed to `thread::spawn` because the closure will then take ownership of the values it uses from the environment, thus transferring ownership of those values from one thread to another.

The following shows an attempt to create a vector in the main thread and use it in the spawned thread:

```rust
use std::thread;
fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3];
    let handle = thread::spawn(|| { // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
        println!("Here's a vector: {:?}", v);
    });
    handle.join().unwrap();
}
```

But when we compile this example, we will get an error.

* Rust *infers* how to capture `v`, and because `println!` only needs a reference to `v`, the closure tries to borrow `v`. However, there’s a problem: Rust can’t tell how long the spawned thread will run, so it doesn’t know if the reference to `v` will always be valid.

By adding the `move` keyword before the closure, we force the closure to take ownership of the values it’s using rather than allowing Rust to infer that it should borrow the values:

```rust
use std::thread;
fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3];
    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        println!("Here's a vector: {:?}", v);
    });
    handle.join().unwrap();
}
```

