# Using Message Passing to Transfer Data Between Threads

One increasingly popular approach to ensuring safe concurrency is ***message passing***, where threads or actors communicate by sending each other messages containing data. Here’s the idea in a slogan from the Go language documentation: “Do not communicate by sharing memory; instead, share memory by communicating.”

To accomplish message-sending concurrency, Rust's standard library provides an implementation of ***channels***. A channel is a general programming concept by which data is sent from one thread to another.

> A channel has two halves: a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter half is the upstream location where you put rubber ducks into the river, and the receiver half is where the rubber duck ends up downstream. One part of your code calls methods on the transmitter with the data you want to send, and another part checks the receiving end for arriving messages. A channel is said to be *closed* if either the transmitter or receiver half is dropped.

# Create A Channel

We create a new channel using the `mpsc::channel` function; `mpsc` stands for *multiple producer, single consumer*. In short, the way Rust’s standard library implements channels means a channel can have multiple *sending* ends that produce values but only one *receiving* end that consumes those values. 

## Transmitter

* The `mpsc::channel` function returns a tuple, the first element of which is the sending end--the transmitter--and the second element is the receiving end--the receiver. The abbreviations `tx` and `rx` are traditionally used in many fields for *transmitter* and *receiver* respectively.

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let val = String::from("hi");
        tx.send(val).unwrap();
    });
}
```

* Let’s move the transmitting end into a spawned thread and have it send one string so the spawned thread is communicating with the main thread.

* The transmitter has a `send` method that takes the value we want to send. The `send` method returns a `Result<T, E>` type, so if the receiver has already been dropped and there’s nowhere to send a value, the send operation will return an error.

## Receiver

The following code will get the value from the receiver in the main thread:

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let val = String::from("hi");
        tx.send(val).unwrap();
    });
    let received = rx.recv().unwrap();
    println!("Got: {}", received);
}
```

* The receiver has two useful methods: `recv` and `try_recv`. We’re using `recv`, short for *receive*, which will **block** the main thread’s execution and wait until a value is sent down the channel. Once a value is sent, `recv` will return it in a `Result<T, E>`. When the transmitter closes, `recv` will return an error to signal that no more values will be coming.

* The `try_recv` method doesn’t block, but will instead return a `Result<T, E>` immediately: an `Ok` value holding a message if one is available and an `Err` value if there aren’t any messages this time. Using `try_recv` is useful if this thread has other work to do while waiting for messages.

# Ownership Transference Between Communication

> The ownership rules play a vital role in message sending because they help you write safe, concurrent code. Preventing errors in concurrent programming is the advantage of thinking about ownership throughout your Rust programs.

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let val = String::from("hi");
        tx.send(val).unwrap();
        println!("val is {}", val); // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
    });
    let received = rx.recv().unwrap();
    println!("Got: {}", received);
}
```

* The compile will not allow the above code to compile. Allowing this would be a bad idea: once the value has been sent to another thread, that thread could modify or drop it before we try to use the value again. Potentially, the other thread’s modifications could cause errors or unexpected results due to inconsistent or nonexistent data.

* The `send` function takes ownership of its parameter, and when the value is moved, the receiver takes ownership of it.

# Sending Multiple Values

The spawned thread will now send multiple messages and pause for a second between each message:

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
use std::time::Duration;
fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("hi"),
            String::from("from"),
            String::from("the"),
            String::from("thread"),
        ];
        for val in vals {
            tx.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });
    for received in rx {
        println!("Got: {}", received);
    }
}
```

* In the main thread, we’re not calling the `recv` function explicitly anymore: instead, we’re treating `rx` as an iterator. For each value received, we’re printing it. When the channel is closed, iteration will end.
* In the main thread, we’re not calling the `recv` function explicitly anymore: instead, we’re treating `rx` as an iterator. For each value received, we’re printing it. When the channel is closed, iteration will end.

The output would be:

```txt
Got: hi
Got: from
Got: the
Got: thread
```

Because we don’t have any code that pauses or delays in the `for` loop in the main thread, we can tell that the main thread is waiting to receive values from the spawned thread.

# Creating Multiple Producers by Cloning the Transmitter

Earlier we mentioned that `mpsc` was an acronym for *multiple producer, single consumer*. Let’s put `mpsc` to use and expand the code to create multiple threads that all send values to the same receiver:

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
use std::time::Duration;

fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();

    let tx1 = tx.clone();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("hi"),
            String::from("from"),
            String::from("the"),
            String::from("thread"),
        ];

        for val in vals {
            tx1.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });

    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("more"),
            String::from("messages"),
            String::from("for"),
            String::from("you"),
        ];

        for val in vals {
            tx.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });

    for received in rx {
        println!("Got: {}", received);
    }
}
```

When you run the code, your output should look something like this:

```txt
Got: hi
Got: more
Got: from
Got: messages
Got: for
Got: the
Got: thread
Got: you
```

