# Function Pointers

This technique is useful when you want to pass a function you’ve already defined rather than defining a new closure. Functions coerce to the type `fn` (with a lowercase f), not to be confused with the `Fn` closure trait.

* The `fn` type is called a ***function pointer***. Passing functions with function pointers will allow you to use functions as arguments to other functions.

```RUST
fn add_one(x: i32) -> i32 {
    x + 1
}

fn do_twice(f: fn(i32) -> i32, arg: i32) -> i32 {
    f(arg) + f(arg)
}

fn main() {
    let answer = do_twice(add_one, 5);
    println!("The answer is: {}", answer);
}
```

```txt
The answer is: 12
```

* Unlike closures, `fn` is a type rather than a trait, so we specify `fn` as the parameter type directly rather than declaring a generic type parameter with one of the `Fn` traits as a trait bound.

* Function pointers implement all three of the closure traits (`Fn`, `FnMut`, and `FnOnce`), meaning you can always pass a function pointer as an argument for a function that expects a closure. 
* It’s best to write functions using a generic type and one of the closure traits so your functions can accept either functions or closures.

# Returning Closures

Closures are represented by traits, which means you can’t return closures directly. In most cases where you might want to return a trait, you can instead use the concrete type that implements the trait as the return value of the function.

However, you can’t do that with closures because they don’t have a concrete type that is returnable; you’re not allowed to use the function pointer `fn` as a return type, for example:

```rust
fn returns_closure() -> dyn Fn(i32) -> i32 { // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
    |x| x + 1
}
```

The compile error is as follows:

```txt
error[E0746]: return type cannot have an unboxed trait object
 --> src/lib.rs:1:25
  |
1 | fn returns_closure() -> dyn Fn(i32) -> i32 {
  |                         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ doesn't have a size known at compile-time
  |
  = note: for information on `impl Trait`, see <https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-02-traits.html#returning-types-that-implement-traits>
help: use `impl Fn(i32) -> i32` as the return type, as all return paths are of type `[closure@src/lib.rs:2:5: 2:14]`, which implements `Fn(i32) -> i32`
  |
1 | fn returns_closure() -> impl Fn(i32) -> i32 {
  |                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

The error references the `Sized` trait again! Rust doesn’t know how much space it will need to store the closure. We saw a solution to this problem earlier. We can use a trait object:

```rust
fn returns_closure() -> Box<dyn Fn(i32) -> i32> {
    Box::new(|x| x + 1)
}
```

