# Generic Data Types
We use generics to create definitions for items like function signatures or structs, which we can then use with many different concrete data types. Let’s first look at how to define functions, structs, enums, and methods using generics. Then we’ll discuss how generics affect code performance.

# In Function Definitions
Take an example that we need to write a function that finds the largest element in the list and returns the reference of that element.

we have to declare the type parameter name before we use it. To define the generic `largest` function, place type name declarations inside angle brackets, `<>`, between the name of the function and the parameter list, like this:
```rust
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
```
We read this definition as: the function `largest` is generic over some type `T`. This function has one parameter named `list`, which is a slice of values of type `T`. The `largest` function will return a reference to a value of the same type `T`.

Now lets try to complete the function by our intuition:
```rust
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
    let mut largest = &list[0];
    for item in list {
        if item > largest { // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
            largest = item;
        }
    }
    largest
}
```
If we compile this code right now, we’ll get this error:
```rust
error[E0369]: binary operation `>` cannot be applied to type `&T`
 --> src/main.rs:5:17
  |
5 |         if item > largest {
  |            ---- ^ ------- &T
  |            |
  |            &T
  |
help: consider restricting type parameter `T`
  |
1 | fn largest<T: std::cmp::PartialOrd>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
  |             ++++++++++++++++++++++
```
> The help text mentions `std::cmp::PartialOrd`, which is a *trait*, and we’re going to talk about traits in the next section. For now, know that this error states that the body of `largest` won’t work for all possible types that `T` could be. Because we want to compare values of type `T` in the body, we can only use types whose values can be ordered. To enable comparisons, the standard library has the `std::cmp::PartialOrd` trait that you can implement on types.

# In Struct Definitions
We can also define structs to use a generic type parameter in one or more fields using the `<>` syntax:
```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}
fn main() {
    let integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    let float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0 };
}
```
Note that because we’ve used only one generic type to define `Point<T>`, this definition says that the `Point<T>` struct is generic over some type `T`, and the fields `x` and `y` are both that same type, whatever that type may be.

# In Enum Definitions
As we did with structs, we can define enums to hold generic data types in their variants. Let’s take another look at the `Option<T>` enum that the standard library provides:
```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```
Enums can use multiple generic types as well. The definition of the `Result` enum that we used before:
```rust
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```

# In Method Definitions
We can implement methods on structs and enums and use generic types in their definitions, too:
```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    println!("p.x = {}", p.x());
}
```
Here, we’ve defined a method named `x` on `Point<T>` that returns a reference to the data in the field `x`.

> Note that we have to declare `T` just after `impl` so we can use `T` to specify that we’re implementing methods on the type `Point<T>`. By declaring `T` as a generic type after `impl`, Rust can identify that the type in the angle brackets in `Point` is a generic type rather than a concrete type. We could have chosen a different name for this generic parameter than the generic parameter declared in the struct definition, but using the same name is conventional. Methods written within an `impl` that declares the generic type will be defined on any instance of the type, no matter what concrete type ends up substituting for the generic type.

We can also specify constraints on generic types when defining methods on the type. We could, for example, implement methods only on `Point<f32>` instances rather than on `Point<T>` instances with any generic type:
```rust
impl Point<f32> {
    fn distance_from_origin(&self) -> f32 {
        (self.x.powi(2) + self.y.powi(2)).sqrt()
    }
}
```
> This code means the type `Point<f32>` will have a `distance_from_origin` method; other instances of `Point<T>` where `T` is not of type `f32` will not have this method defined.

Generic type parameters in a struct definition aren’t always the same as those you use in that same struct’s method signatures. The following code uses the generic types `X1` and `Y1` for the `Point` struct and `X2` `Y2` for the `mixup` method signature to make the example clearer. The method creates a new `Point` instance with the `x` value from the `self` `Point` (of type `X1`) and the `y` value from the passed-in `Point` (of type `Y2`):
```rust
struct Point<X1, Y1> {
    x: X1,
    y: Y1,
}

impl<X1, Y1> Point<X1, Y1> {
    fn mixup<X2, Y2>(self, other: Point<X2, Y2>) -> Point<X1, Y2> {
        Point {
            x: self.x,
            y: other.y,
        }
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p1 = Point { x: 5, y: 10.4 };
    let p2 = Point { x: "Hello", y: 'c' };

    let p3 = p1.mixup(p2);

    println!("p3.x = {}, p3.y = {}", p3.x, p3.y);
}
```

# Performance of Code Using Generics
You might be wondering whether there is a runtime cost when using generic type parameters. The good news is that using generic types **won't** make your program run any slower than it would with concrete types.

> Rust accomplishes this by performing monomorphization of the code using generics at compile time. *Monomorphization* is the process of turning generic code into specific code by filling in the concrete types that are used when compiled.
>
> In this process, the compiler does the opposite of the steps we used to create the generic function. The compiler looks at all the places where generic code is called and generates code for the concrete types the generic code is called with.

Let’s look at how this works by using the standard library’s generic `Option<T>` enum:
```rust
let integer = Some(5);
let float = Some(5.0);
```
When Rust compiles this code, it performs monomorphization. During that process, the compiler reads the values that have been used in `Option<T>` instances and identifies two kinds of `Option<T>`: one is `i32` and the other is `f64`. As such, it expands the generic definition of `Option<T>` into two definitions specialized to `i32` and `f64`, thereby replacing the generic definition with the specific ones.

The monomorphized version of the code looks similar to the following (the compiler uses different names than what we’re using here for illustration):
```rust
enum Option_i32 {
    Some(i32),
    None,
}

enum Option_f64 {
    Some(f64),
    None,
}

fn main() {
    let integer = Option_i32::Some(5);
    let float = Option_f64::Some(5.0);
}
```

The generic `Option<T>` is replaced with the specific definitions created by the compiler. Because Rust compiles generic code into code that specifies the type in each instance, we pay no runtime cost for using generics. When the code runs, it performs just as it would if we had duplicated each definition by hand. The process of monomorphization makes Rust’s generics extremely efficient at runtime.