# Traits: Defining Shared Behavior
A **trait** defines functionality a particular type has and can share with other types. We can use traits to define shared behavior in an abstract way. We can use *trait bounds* to specify that a generic type can be any type that has certain behavior.

> Note: Traits are similar to a feature often called *interfaces* in other languages, although with some differences.

# Defining a Trait
A type’s behavior consists of the methods we can call on that type. Different types share the same behavior if we can call the same methods on all of those types. Trait definitions are a way to group method signatures together to define a set of behaviors necessary to accomplish some purpose.

For example, let’s say we have multiple structs that hold various kinds and amounts of text: a `NewsArticle` struct that holds a news story filed in a particular location and a `Tweet` that can have at most 280 characters along with metadata that indicates whether it was a new tweet, a retweet, or a reply to another tweet.

We want to make a media aggregator library crate named `aggregator` that can display summaries of data that might be stored in a `NewsArticle` or `Tweet` instance. To do this, we need a summary from each type, and we’ll request that summary by calling a `summarize` method on an instance. The following code shows the definition of a public Summary trait that expresses this behavior:
```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String;
}
```

A trait can have multiple methods in its body: the method signatures are listed one per line and each line ends in a semicolon.

> After the method signature, instead of providing an implementation within curly brackets, we use a semicolon. Each type implementing this trait must provide its own custom behavior for the body of the method. The compiler will enforce that any type that has the `Summary` trait will have the method `summarize` defined with this signature exactly.

# Implementing a Trait on a Type

Now that we’ve defined the desired signatures of the `Summary` trait’s methods, we can implement it on the types in our media aggregator:
```rust
pub struct NewsArticle {
    pub headline: String,
    pub location: String,
    pub author: String,
    pub content: String,
}

impl Summary for NewsArticle {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}, by {} ({})", self.headline, self.author, self.location)
    }
}

pub struct Tweet {
    pub username: String,
    pub content: String,
    pub reply: bool,
    pub retweet: bool,
}

impl Summary for Tweet {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}: {}", self.username, self.content)
    }
}
```
Implementing a trait on a type is similar to implementing regular methods. The difference is that after `impl`, we put the trait name we want to implement, then use the `for` keyword, and then specify the name of the type we want to implement the trait for. Within the `impl` block, we put the method signatures that the trait definition has defined.

Now that the library has implemented the `Summary` trait on `NewsArticle` and `Tweet`, users of the crate can call the trait methods on instances of `NewsArticle` and `Tweet` in the same way we call regular methods. **The only difference is that the user must bring the trait into scope as well as the types**:
```rust
use aggregator::{Summary, Tweet};

fn main() {
    let tweet = Tweet {
        username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
        content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
        ),
        reply: false,
        retweet: false,
    };

    println!("1 new tweet: {}", tweet.summarize());
}
```

> Other crates that depend on the `aggregator` crate can also bring the `Summary` trait into scope to implement `Summary` on their own types. One restriction to note is that we can implement a trait on a type only if at least one of the trait or the type is local to our crate. For example, we can implement standard library traits like `Display` on a custom type like `Tweet` as part of our `aggregator` crate functionality, because the type `Tweet` is local to our `aggregator` crate. We can also implement `Summary` on `Vec<T>` in our `aggregator` crate, because the trait `Summary` is local to our `aggregator` crate.

> But we can’t implement external traits on external types. For example, we can’t implement the `Display` trait on `Vec<T>` within our `aggregator` crate, because `Display` and `Vec<T>` are both defined in the standard library and aren’t local to our `aggregator` crate. 

> This restriction is part of a property called *coherence*, and more specifically the *orphan rule*, so named because the parent type is not present. This rule ensures that other people’s code can’t break your code and vice versa. Without the rule, two crates could implement the same trait for the same type, and Rust wouldn’t know which implementation to use.

# Default Implementations
Sometimes it’s useful to have default behavior for some or all of the methods in a trait instead of requiring implementations for all methods on every type. Then, as we implement the trait on a particular type, we can keep or override each method’s default behavior:

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        String::from("(Read more...)")
    }
}
```
* To use a default implementation to summarize instances of `NewsArticle`, we specify an empty `impl` block with `impl Summary for NewsArticle {}`.

> Creating a default implementation doesn’t require us to change anything about the implementation of `Summary` on `Tweet`. The reason is that the syntax for overriding a default implementation is the same as the syntax for implementing a trait method that doesn’t have a default implementation.

Default implementations can call other methods in the same trait, even if those other methods don’t have a default implementation. In this way, a trait can provide a lot of useful functionality and only require implementors to specify a small part of it. For example, we could define the `Summary` trait to have a `summarize_author` method whose implementation is required, and then define a `summarize` method that has a default implementation that calls the `summarize_author` method:
```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize_author(&self) -> String;
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("(Read more from {}...)", self.summarize_author())
    }
}
```

# Traits as Parameters
Now that you know how to define and implement traits, we can explore how to use traits to define functions that accept many different types.

We'll use the `Summary` trait we implemented on the `NewsArticle` and `Tweet` types to define a notify function that calls the summarize method on its item parameter, which is of some type that implements the `Summary` trait. To do this, we use the `impl Trait` syntax, like this:
```rust
pub fn notify(item: &impl Summary) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```
* Instead of a concrete type for the `item` parameter, we specify the `impl` keyword and the trait name. This parameter accepts any type that implements the specified trait.

# Trait Bound Syntax
The `impl Trait` syntax works for straightforward cases but is actually syntax sugar for a longer form known as a *trait bound*; it looks like this:
```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item: &T) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```
* This longer form is equivalent to the example in the previous section but is more verbose. We place trait bounds with the declaration of the generic type parameter after a colon and inside angle brackets.

The `impl Trait` syntax is convenient and makes for more concise code in simple cases, while the fuller trait bound syntax can express more complexity in other cases. For example, we can have two parameters that implement `Summary`. Doing so with the `impl Trait` syntax looks like this:
```rust
pub fn notify(item1: &impl Summary, item2: &impl Summary) {
```
Using `impl Trait` is appropriate if we want this function to allow `item1` and `item2` to have different types (as long as both types implement `Summary`). If we want to force both parameters to have the same type, however, we must use a trait bound, like this:
```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item1: &T, item2: &T) {
```

# Specifying Multiple Trait Bounds with the + Syntax
We can also specify more than one trait bound:
```rust
pub fn notify(item: &(impl Summary + Display)) {
```
The `+` syntax is also valid with trait bounds on generic types:
```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary + Display>(item: &T) {
```

# Clearer Trait Bounds with `where` Clauses
Using too many trait bounds has its downsides. Each generic has its own trait bounds, so functions with multiple generic type parameters can contain lots of trait bound information between the function’s name and its parameter list, making the function signature hard to read. For this reason, Rust has alternate syntax for specifying trait bounds inside a `where` clause after the function signature. So instead of writing this:
```rust
fn some_function<T: Display + Clone, U: Clone + Debug>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32 {
```
We can uses a `where` clause, like this:
```rust
fn some_function<T, U>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32
where
    T: Display + Clone,
    U: Clone + Debug,
{
```
This function’s signature is less cluttered: the function name, parameter list, and return type are close together, similar to a function without lots of trait bounds.

# Returning Types that Implement Traits
We can also use the `impl Trait` syntax in the return position to return a value of some type that implements a trait, as shown here:
```rust
fn returns_summarizable() -> impl Summary {
```
> The ability to specify a return type only by the trait it implements is especially useful in the context of closures and iterators, which we cover in later chapters. Closures and iterators create types that only the compiler knows or types that are very long to specify. The `impl Trait` syntax lets you concisely specify that a function returns some type that implements the `Iterator` trait without needing to write out a very long type.

# Using Trait Bounds to Conditionally Implement Methods
By using a trait bound with an `impl` block that uses generic type parameters, we can implement methods conditionally for types that implement the specified traits:

```rust
struct Pair<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Pair<T> {
    fn new(x: T, y: T) -> Self {
        Self { x, y }
    }
}

impl<T: Display + PartialOrd> Pair<T> {
    fn cmp_display(&self) -> bool {
        if self.x >= self.y { true } else { false }
    }
}
```

We can also conditionally implement a trait for any type that implements another trait. Implementations of a trait on any type that satisfies the trait bounds are called *blanket implementations* and are extensively used in the Rust standard library.

For example, the standard library implements the `ToString` trait on any type that implements the `Display` trait. The impl block in the standard library looks similar to this code:
```rust
impl<T: Display> ToString for T {
```

# Summary
Traits and trait bounds let us write code that uses generic type parameters to reduce duplication but also specify to the compiler that we want the generic type to have particular behavior. The compiler can then use the trait bound information to check that all the concrete types used with our code provide the correct behavior. In dynamically typed languages, we would get an error at runtime if we called a method on a type which didn’t define the method. But Rust moves these errors to compile time so we’re forced to fix the problems before our code is even able to run. Additionally, we don’t have to write code that checks for behavior at runtime because we’ve already checked at compile time. Doing so improves performance without having to give up the flexibility of generics.

