# Validating References with Lifetimes
Lifetimes are another kind of generic that we’ve already been using. Rather than ensuring that a type has the behavior we want, lifetimes ensure that references are valid as long as we need them to be.

Every reference in Rust has a ***lifetime***, which is the scope for which that reference is valid.

> Most of the time, lifetimes are implicit and inferred, just like most of the time, types are inferred. We only must annotate types when multiple types are possible.

> In a similar way, we must annotate lifetimes when the lifetimes of references could be related in a few different ways. Rust requires us to annotate the relationships using generic lifetime parameters to ensure the actual references used at runtime will definitely be valid.

Annotating lifetimes is not even a concept most other programming languages have, so this is going to feel unfamiliar. Although we won’t cover lifetimes in their entirety in this chapter, we’ll discuss common ways you might encounter lifetime syntax so you can get comfortable with the concept.

# Preventing Dangling References with Lifetimes
The main aim of lifetimes is to prevent ***dangling references***, which cause a program to reference data other than the data it’s intended to reference:
```rust
fn main() {
    let r;
    {
        let x = 5;
        r = &x; // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
    }
    println!("r: {}", r);
}
```
* The compile-time error will indicate the variable `x` as `borrowed value does not live long enough`. The reason is that `x` will be out of scope when the inner scope ends on line 7. But `r` is still valid for the outer scope; because its scope is larger, we say that it “lives longer”. 
* If Rust allowed this code to work, `r` would be referencing memory that was deallocated when `x` went out of scope, and anything we tried to do with `r` wouldn’t work correctly.

# The Borrow Checker
The Rust compiler has a borrow checker that compares scopes to determine whether all borrows are valid:
```rust
fn main() {
    let r;                // ---------+-- 'a
                          //          |
    {                     //          |
        let x = 5;        // -+-- 'b  |
        r = &x;           //  |       |
    }                     // -+       |
                          //          |
    println!("r: {}", r); //          |
}                         // ---------+
```
* Here, we’ve annotated the lifetime of `r` with `'a` and the lifetime of `x` with `'b`. As you can see, the inner `'b` block is much smaller than the outer `'a` lifetime block. At compile time, Rust compares the size of the two lifetimes and sees that `r` has a lifetime of `'a` but that it refers to memory with a lifetime of `'b`. The program is rejected because `'b` is shorter than `'a`: the subject of the reference doesn’t live as long as the reference.

Let us fixes the code so it doesn’t have a dangling reference and compiles without any errors:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;            // ----------+-- 'b
                          //           |
    let r = &x;           // --+-- 'a  |
                          //   |       |
    println!("r: {}", r); //   |       |
                          // --+       |
}                         // ----------+
```
* Here, `x` has the lifetime `'b`, which in this case is larger than `'a`. This means `r` can reference `x` because Rust knows that the reference in `r` will always be valid while `x` is valid.

# Generic Lifetimes in Functions
We’ll write a function that returns the longer of two string slices. This function will take two string slices and return a single string slice:
```rust
fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str { // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```
Instead, we get the following error that talks about lifetimes:
```rust
   Compiling chapter10 v0.1.0 (file:///projects/chapter10)
error[E0106]: missing lifetime specifier
 --> src/main.rs:9:33
  |
9 | fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str {
  |               ----     ----     ^ expected named lifetime parameter
  |
  = help: this function's return type contains a borrowed value, but the signature does not say whether it is borrowed from `x` or `y`
help: consider introducing a named lifetime parameter
  |
9 | fn longest<'a>(x: &'a str, y: &'a str) -> &'a str {
  |           ++++     ++          ++          ++
```
* Because Rust can’t tell whether the reference being returned refers to `x` or `y`. Actually, we don’t know either, because it is decided by the runtime.
* We also don’t know the concrete lifetimes of the references that will be passed in, so we can’t look at the scopes to determine whether the reference we return will always be valid.
* The borrow checker can’t determine this either, because it doesn’t know how the lifetimes of `x` and `y` relate to the lifetime of the return value.

# Lifetime Annotation Syntax
Lifetime annotations don’t change how long any of the references live. Rather, **they describe the relationships of the lifetimes of multiple references to each other without affecting the lifetimes**. Just as functions can accept any type when the signature specifies a generic type parameter, functions can accept references with any lifetime by specifying a generic lifetime parameter.

> Lifetime annotations have a slightly unusual syntax: the names of lifetime parameters must start with an apostrophe (`'`) and are usually all lowercase and very short, like generic types. Most people use the name `'a` for the first lifetime annotation. We place lifetime parameter annotations after the `&` of a reference.

Here are some examples: a reference to an `i32` without a lifetime parameter, a reference to an `i32` that has a lifetime parameter named `'a`, and a mutable reference to an `i32` that also has the lifetime `'a`:
```rust
&i32        // a reference
&'a i32     // a reference with an explicit lifetime
&'a mut i32 // a mutable reference with an explicit lifetime
```
* One lifetime annotation by itself doesn’t have much meaning, because the annotations are meant to tell Rust how generic lifetime parameters of multiple references relate to each other.

# Lifetime Annotations in Function Signatures
To use lifetime annotations in function signatures, we need to declare the generic *lifetime* parameters inside angle brackets between the function name and the parameter list, just as we did with generic *type* parameters.

> Lifetimes on function or method parameters are called ***input lifetimes***, and lifetimes on return values are called ***output lifetimes***.

We want the signature to express the following constraint: **the returned reference will be valid as long as both the parameters are valid**. This is the relationship between lifetimes of the parameters and the return value:
```rust
fn longest<'a>(x: &'a str, y: &'a str) -> &'a str {
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```
* The function signature now tells Rust that for some lifetime `'a`, the function takes two parameters, both of which are string slices that live at least as long as lifetime `'a`. The function signature also tells Rust that the string slice returned from the function will live at least as long as lifetime `'a`. In practice, it means that the lifetime of the reference returned by the `longest` function is the same as the smaller of the lifetimes of the values referred to by the function arguments. These relationships are what we want Rust to use when analyzing this code.
* Remember, when we specify the lifetime parameters in this function signature, we’re not changing the lifetimes of any values passed in or returned. Rather, we’re specifying that the borrow checker should reject any values that don’t adhere to these constraints. Note that the `longest` function doesn’t need to know exactly how long `x` and `y` will live, only that some scope can be substituted for `'a` that will satisfy this signature.

> When annotating lifetimes in functions, the annotations go in the function signature, not in the function body. The lifetime annotations become part of the contract of the function, much like the types in the signature. Having function signatures contain the lifetime contract means the analysis the Rust compiler does can be simpler. If there’s a problem with the way a function is annotated or the way it is called, the compiler errors can point to the part of our code and the constraints more precisely.

* When we pass concrete references to `longest`, the concrete lifetime that is substituted for `'a` is the part of the scope of `x` that overlaps with the scope of `y`. In other words, the generic lifetime `'a` will get the concrete lifetime that is equal to the smaller of the lifetimes of `x` and `y`. Because we’ve annotated the returned reference with the same lifetime parameter `'a`, the returned reference will also be valid for the length of the smaller of the lifetimes of `x` and y.

## Examples
Let’s look at how the lifetime annotations restrict the longest function by passing in references that have different concrete lifetimes:
```rust
fn main() {
    let string1 = String::from("long string is long");
    {
        let string2 = String::from("xyz");
        let result = longest(string1.as_str(), string2.as_str());
        println!("The longest string is {}", result);
    }
}
```
* In this example, `string1` is valid until the end of the outer scope, `string2` is valid until the end of the inner scope, and result references something that is valid until the end of the inner scope. Run this code, and you’ll see that the borrow checker approves; it will compile and print `The longest string is long string is long`.

Next, let’s try an example that shows that the lifetime of the reference in result must be the smaller lifetime of the two arguments:
```rust
fn main() {
    let string1 = String::from("long string is long");
    let result;
    {
        let string2 = String::from("xyz");
        result = longest(string1.as_str(), string2.as_str()); // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
    }
    println!("The longest string is {}", result);
}
```
* As humans, we can look at this code and see that `string1` is longer than `string2` and therefore result will contain a reference to `string1`. Because `string1` has not gone out of scope yet, a reference to `string1` will still be valid for the `println!` statement. However, the compiler can’t see that the reference is valid in this case. We’ve told Rust that the lifetime of the reference returned by the `longest` function is the same as the smaller of the lifetimes of the references passed in.

# Thinking in Terms of Lifetimes
The way in which you need to specify lifetime parameters depends on what your function is doing. For example, if we changed the implementation of the `longest` function to always return the first parameter rather than the longest string slice, we wouldn’t need to specify a lifetime on the `y` parameter:
```rust
fn longest<'a>(x: &'a str, y: &str) -> &'a str {
    x
}
```
* We’ve specified a lifetime parameter `'a` for the parameter `x` and the return type, but not for the parameter `y`, because the lifetime of `y` does not have any relationship with the lifetime of `x` or the return value.

When returning a reference from a function, **the lifetime parameter for the return type needs to match the lifetime parameter for one of the parameters**:
```rust
fn longest<'a>(x: &str, y: &str) -> &'a str {
    let result = String::from("really long string");
    result.as_str()
}
```
* Here, even though we’ve specified a lifetime parameter `'a` for the return type, this implementation will fail to compile because the return value lifetime is not related to the lifetime of the parameters at all.
* The problem is that `result` goes out of scope and gets cleaned up at the end of the `longest` function. This would causes a dangling reference. Therefore the Rust compiler tells us an error.

> Ultimately, lifetime syntax is about connecting the lifetimes of various parameters and return values of functions. Once they’re connected, Rust has enough information to allow memory-safe operations and disallow operations that would create dangling pointers or otherwise violate memory safety.

# Lifetime Annotations in Struct Definitions
So far, the structs we’ve defined all hold owned types. We can define structs to hold references, but in that case we would need to add a lifetime annotation on every reference in the struct’s definition:
```rust
struct ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    part: &'a str,
}

fn main() {
    let novel = String::from("Call me Ishmael. Some years ago...");
    let first_sentence = novel.split('.').next().expect("Could not find a '.'");
    let i = ImportantExcerpt {
        part: first_sentence,
    };
}
```
* This struct has the single field `part` that holds a string slice, which is a reference. As with generic data types, we declare the name of the generic lifetime parameter inside angle brackets after the name of the struct so we can use the lifetime parameter in the body of the struct definition. This annotation means an instance of `ImportantExcerpt` can’t outlive the reference it holds in its `part` field.

# Lifetime Elision
You’ve learned that every reference has a lifetime and that you need to specify lifetime parameters for functions or structs that use references. However, in some cases that compiled code can work without lifetime annotations:
```rust
fn first_word(s: &str) -> &str {
    let bytes = s.as_bytes();

    for (i, &item) in bytes.iter().enumerate() {
        if item == b' ' {
            return &s[0..i];
        }
    }

    &s[..]
}
```
> The reason this function compiles without lifetime annotations is historical: in early versions (pre-1.0) of Rust, this code wouldn’t have compiled because every reference needed an explicit lifetime. At that time, the function signature would have been written like this:
> ```rust
> fn first_word<'a>(s: &'a str) -> &'a str {
> ```
> After writing a lot of Rust code, the Rust team found that Rust programmers were entering the same lifetime annotations over and over in particular situations. These situations were predictable and followed a few deterministic patterns. The developers programmed these patterns into the compiler’s code so the borrow checker could infer the lifetimes in these situations and wouldn’t need explicit annotations.

> This piece of Rust history is relevant because it’s possible that more deterministic patterns will emerge and be added to the compiler. In the future, even fewer lifetime annotations might be required.
>
> The patterns programmed into Rust’s analysis of references are called the ***lifetime elision rules***. These aren’t rules for programmers to follow; they’re a set of particular cases that the compiler will consider, and if your code fits these cases, you don’t need to write the lifetimes explicitly.

> The elision rules don’t provide full inference. If Rust deterministically applies the rules but there is still ambiguity as to what lifetimes the references have, the compiler won’t guess what the lifetime of the remaining references should be. Instead of guessing, the compiler will give you an error that you can resolve by adding the lifetime annotations.

## Lifetime Elision Rules
The compiler uses three rules to figure out the lifetimes of the references when there aren’t explicit annotations. The first rule applies to input lifetimes, and the second and third rules apply to output lifetimes. If the compiler gets to the end of the three rules and there are still references for which it can’t figure out lifetimes, the compiler will stop with an error.

1. The first rule is that the compiler assigns a lifetime parameter to each parameter that’s a reference. In other words, a function with one parameter gets one lifetime parameter: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32);` a function with two parameters gets two separate lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a, 'b>(x: &'a i32, y: &'b i32);` and so on.
2. The second rule is that, if there is exactly one input lifetime parameter, that lifetime is assigned to all output lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32) -> &'a i32`.
3. The third rule is that, if there are multiple input lifetime parameters, but one of them is `&self` or `&mut self` because this is a method, the lifetime of `self` is assigned to all output lifetime parameters. This third rule makes methods much nicer to read and write because fewer symbols are necessary.

## Examples
Let’s pretend we’re the compiler. We’ll apply these rules to figure out the lifetimes of the references in the signature:
```rust
fn first_word(s: &str) -> &str {
```
Then the compiler applies the first rule, which specifies that each parameter gets its own lifetime:
```rust
fn first_word<'a>(s: &'a str) -> &str {
```
The second rule applies because there is exactly one input lifetime. The second rule specifies that the lifetime of the one input parameter gets assigned to the output lifetime:
```rust
fn first_word<'a>(s: &'a str) -> &'a str {
```
Now all the references in this function signature have lifetimes, and the compiler can continue its analysis without needing the programmer to annotate the lifetimes in this function signature.

Let’s look at another example:
```rust
fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str {
```
Let’s apply the first rule: each parameter gets its own lifetime. This time we have two parameters instead of one, so we have two lifetimes:
```rust
fn longest<'a, 'b>(x: &'a str, y: &'b str) -> &str {
```
You can see that the second rule doesn’t apply because there is more than one input lifetime. The third rule doesn’t apply either, because `longest` is a function rather than a method, so none of the parameters are `self`. After working through all three rules, we still haven’t figured out what the return type’s lifetime is. This is why we got an error trying to compile the code.

## Lifetime Annotations in Method Definitions
When we implement methods on a struct with lifetimes, we use the same syntax as that of generic type parameters. Where we declare and use the lifetime parameters depends on whether they’re related to the struct fields or the method parameters and return values.

> Lifetime names for struct fields always need to be declared after the `impl` keyword and then used after the struct’s name, *because those lifetimes are part of the struct’s type*.

> In method signatures inside the `impl` block, references might be tied to the lifetime of references in the struct’s fields, or they might be independent.

```rust
impl<'a> ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    fn level(&self) -> i32 {
        3
    }
}
```
* The lifetime parameter declaration after `impl` and its use after the type name are required, but we’re not required to annotate the lifetime of the reference to `self` because of the first elision rule.

```rust
impl<'a> ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
    fn announce_and_return_part(&self, announcement: &str) -> &str {
        println!("Attention please: {}", announcement);
        self.part
    }
}
```
There are two input lifetimes, so Rust applies the first lifetime elision rule and gives both `&self` and `announcement` their own lifetimes. Then, because one of the parameters is `&self`, the return type gets the lifetime of `&self`, and all lifetimes have been accounted for.

## The Static Lifetime
One special lifetime we need to discuss is `'static`, which denotes that the affected reference can live for the entire duration of the program. All string literals have the `'static` lifetime, which we can annotate as follows:
```rust
#![allow(unused)]
fn main() {
let s: &'static str = "I have a static lifetime.";
}
```
* The text of this string is stored directly in the program’s binary, which is always available. Therefore, the lifetime of all string literals is `'static`.

> You might see suggestions to use the `'static` lifetime in error messages. But before specifying `'static` as the lifetime for a reference, think about whether the reference you have actually lives the entire lifetime of your program or not, and whether you want it to. Most of the time, an error message suggesting the `'static` lifetime results from attempting to create a dangling reference or a mismatch of the available lifetimes. In such cases, the solution is fixing those problems, not specifying the `'static` lifetime.

# Generic Type Parameters, Trait Bounds, and Lifetimes Together
Let’s briefly look at the syntax of specifying generic type parameters, trait bounds, and lifetimes all in one function:
```rust
use std::fmt::Display;

fn longest_with_an_announcement<'a, T>(
    x: &'a str,
    y: &'a str,
    ann: T,
) -> &'a str
where
    T: Display,
{
    println!("Announcement! {}", ann);
    if x.len() > y.len() {
        x
    } else {
        y
    }
}
```
* This is the `longest` function that returns the longer of two string slices. But now it has an extra parameter named `ann` of the generic type `T`, which can be filled in by any type that implements the `Display` trait as specified by the `where` clause. This extra parameter will be printed using `{}`, which is why the `Display` trait bound is necessary. Because lifetimes are a type of generic, the declarations of the lifetime parameter `'a` and the generic type parameter `T` go in the same list inside the angle brackets after the function name.

# Summary
We covered a lot in this chapter! Now that you know about generic type parameters, traits and trait bounds, and generic lifetime parameters, you’re ready to write code without repetition that works in many different situations. Generic type parameters let you apply the code to different types. Traits and trait bounds ensure that even though the types are generic, they’ll have the behavior the code needs. You learned how to use lifetime annotations to ensure that this flexible code won’t have any dangling references. And all of this analysis happens at compile time, which doesn’t affect runtime performance!

