# Controlling How Tests Are Run
The default behavior of the binary produced by `cargo test` is to run all the tests in parallel and capture output generated during test runs, preventing the output from being displayed and making it easier to read the output related to the test results. You can, however, specify command line options to change this default behavior.
> Running `cargo test --help` displays the options you can use with `cargo test`.

# Running Tests in Parallel or Consecutively
When you run multiple tests, by default they run in parallel using threads, meaning they finish running faster and you get feedback quicker. Because the tests are running at the same time, you must make sure your tests don’t depend on each other or on any shared state, including a shared environment, such as the current working directory or environment variables.

> For example, say each of your tests runs some code that creates a file on disk named `test-output.txt` and writes some data to that file. Then each test reads the data in that file and asserts that the file contains a particular value, which is different in each test. Because the tests run at the same time, one test might overwrite the file in the time between another test writing and reading the file. The second test will then fail, not because the code is incorrect but because the tests have interfered with each other while running in parallel. One solution is to make sure each test writes to a different file; another solution is to run the tests one at a time.

If you don’t want to run the tests in parallel or if you want more fine-grained control over the number of threads used, you can send the `--test-threads` flag and the number of threads you want to use to the test binary. Take a look at the following example:
```bash
$ cargo test -- --test-threads=1
```
* We set the number of test threads to `1`, telling the program not to use any parallelism. Running the tests using one thread will take longer than running them in parallel, but the tests won’t interfere with each other if they share state.

# Showing Function Output
By default, if a test passes, Rust’s test library captures anything printed to standard output. For example, if we call `println!` in a test and the test passes, we won’t see the `println!` output in the terminal; we’ll see only the line that indicates the test passed. If a test fails, we’ll see whatever was printed to standard output with the rest of the failure message.

If we want to see printed values for passing tests as well, we can tell Rust to also show the output of successful tests with `--show-output`.
```bash
$ cargo test -- --show-output
```

# Running a Subset of Tests by Name
Sometimes, running a full test suite can take a long time. If you’re working on code in a particular area, you might want to run only the tests pertaining to that code. You can choose which tests to run by passing `cargo test` the name or names of the test(s) you want to run as an argument.

## Running Single Test
We can pass the name of any test function to `cargo test` to run only that test:
```bash
$ cargo test your_test_function_name
```
* We can’t specify the names of multiple tests in this way; only the first value given to `cargo test` will be used.

## Filtering to Run Multiple Tests
We can specify part of a test name, and any test whose name matches that value will be run. For example, we have two of our tests’ names contain the string `add_`, we can run those two by running as following:
```bash
$ cargo test add_
```
* This command ran all tests with `add_` in the name.

## Ignoring Some Tests Unless Specifically Requested
Sometimes a few specific tests can be very time-consuming to execute, so you might want to exclude them during most runs of cargo test. Rather than listing as arguments all tests you do want to run, you can instead annotate the time-consuming tests using the `ignore` attribute to exclude them:
```rust
#[test]
#[ignore]
fn expensive_test() {
    // code that takes an hour to run
}
```
If we want to run only the ignored tests, we can use:
```bash
$ cargo test -- --ignored
```
