# Preface
Ownership is Rust’s most unique feature and has deep implications for the rest of the language. It enables Rust to make memory safety guarantees without needing a garbage collector, so it’s important to understand how ownership works. In this chapter, we’ll talk about ownership as well as several related features: borrowing, slices, and how Rust lays data out in memory.

# What is Ownership?
Ownership is a set of rules that govern how a Rust program manages memory. All programs have to manage the way they use a computer’s memory while running. Some languages have garbage collection that regularly looks for no-longer-used memory as the program runs; in other languages, the programmer must explicitly allocate and free the memory. Rust uses a third approach: memory is managed through a system of ownership with a set of rules that the compiler checks. If any of the rules are violated, the program won’t compile. None of the features of ownership will slow down your program while it’s running.

Because ownership is a new concept for many programmers, it does take some time to get used to. The good news is that the more experienced you become with Rust and the rules of the ownership system, the easier you’ll find it to naturally develop code that is safe and efficient.

> ## The Stack and the Heap
> Parts of ownership will be described in relation to the stack and the heap later in this chapter, so here is a brief explanation in preparation. 
> 
> Many programming languages don’t require you to think about the stack and the heap very often. But in a systems programming language like Rust, whether a value is on the stack or the heap affects how the language behaves and why you have to make certain decisions.
>
> Both the stack and the heap are parts of memory available to your code to use at runtime, but they are structured in different ways. 
> 
> The stack stores values in the order it gets them and removes the values in the opposite order. This is referred to as *first in, last out*. Adding data is called pushing onto the stack, and removing data is called popping off the stack. All data stored on the stack must have a known, fixed size. Data with an unknown size at compile time or a size that might change must be stored on the heap instead.
>
> The heap is less organized: when you put data on the heap, you request a certain amount of space. The memory allocator finds an empty spot in the heap that is big enough, marks it as being in use, and returns a pointer, which is the address of that location. This process is called `allocating on the heap` and is sometimes abbreviated as just `allocating` (pushing values onto the stack is not considered allocating).
>
> Pushing to the stack is faster than allocating on the heap because the allocator never has to search for a place to store new data; that location is always at the top of the stack. Comparatively, allocating space on the heap requires more work because the allocator must first find a big enough space to hold the data and then perform bookkeeping to prepare for the next allocation.
>
> Accessing data in the heap is slower than accessing data on the stack because you have to follow a pointer to get there.
>
> When your code calls a function, the values passed into the function (including, potentially, pointers to data on the heap) and the function’s local variables get pushed onto the stack. When the function is over, those values get popped off the stack.
>
> Keeping track of what parts of code are using what data on the heap, minimizing the amount of duplicate data on the heap, and cleaning up unused data on the heap so you don’t run out of space are all problems that ownership addresses. Once you understand ownership, you won’t need to think about the stack and the heap very often, but knowing that the main purpose of ownership is to manage heap data can help explain why it works the way it does.

# Ownership Rules
First, let’s take a look at the ownership rules. Keep these rules in mind as we work through the examples that illustrate them:
* Each value in Rust has an owner.
* There can only be one owner at a time.
* When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped.

The next section will use examples to illustrate you how ownership works around in Rust.