# Installation
The first step is to install Rust. We’ll download Rust through `rustup`, a command line tool for managing Rust versions and associated tools. You’ll need an internet connection for the download.

# Linux / MacOS
If you’re using Linux or macOS, open a terminal and enter the following command:
```bash
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.3 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
```
The command downloads a script and starts the installation of the `rustup` tool, which installs the latest stable version of Rust. You might be prompted for your password. If the install is successful, the following line will appear:
```bash
Rust is installed now. Great!
```

# Windows
On Windows, go to https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install and follow the instructions for installing Rust. At some point in the installation, you’ll receive a message explaining that you’ll also need the MSVC build tools for Visual Studio 2013 or later.

# Troubleshooting
To check whether you have Rust installed correctly, open a shell and enter this line:
```bash
$ rustc --version
```

If you see this information, you have installed Rust successfully! If you don’t see this information, check that Rust is in your `%PATH%` system variable as follows.
In Windows CMD, use:
```bash
> echo %PATH%
```
In PowerShell, use:
```bash
> echo $env:Path
```
In Linux and macOS, use:
```bash
$ echo $PATH
```

# Updating and Uninstalling
Once Rust is installed via `rustup`, updating to a newly released version is easy. From your shell, run the following update script:
```bash
$ rustup update
```
To uninstall Rust and `rustup`, run the following uninstall script from your shell:
```bash
$ rustup self uninstall
```

# Local Documentation
The installation of Rust also includes a local copy of the documentation so that you can read it offline. Run `rustup doc` to open the local documentation in your browser.

Any time a type or function is provided by the standard library and you’re not sure what it does or how to use it, use the application programming interface (API) documentation to find out!