# Dynamically Sized Types

Rust needs to know certain details about its types, such as how much space to allocate for a value of a particular type. There is a special case of Rust type system: ***dynamically sized types***. Sometimes referred to as ***DSTs*** or ***unsized types***.

* These types let us write code using values whose size we can know only at runtime.

Let’s dig into the details of a dynamically sized type called `str`, which we’ve been using throughout the book. That’s right, **not `&str`, but `str` on its own, is a DST**.

We can’t know how long the string is until runtime, meaning we can’t create a variable of type `str`, nor can we take an argument of type `str`:

```rust
fn main() {
    let s1: str = "Hello there!";
    let s2: str = "How's it going?";
}
```

* Because in Rust, all local variables must have a statically known size. Rust needs to know how much memory to allocate for any value of a particular type, and all values of a type must use the same amount of memory. If Rust allowed us to write this code, these two `str` values would need to take up the same amount of space. But they have different lengths: `s1` needs 12 bytes of storage and `s2` needs 15. This is why it’s not possible to create a variable holding a dynamically sized type.
* So what do we do? In this case, you already know the answer: we use `&str` rather than a `str`. Because the slice data structure just stores the starting position and the length of the slice.
* A `&str` is *two* values: the address of the `str` and its length. As such, we can know the size of a `&str` value at compile time: it’s twice the length of a `usize`.

> That is, we always know the size of a `&str`, no matter how long the string it refers to is. In general, this is the way in which dynamically sized types are used in Rust: they have an extra bit of metadata that stores the size of the dynamic information.
>
> The **golden rule** of dynamically sized types is that we must always put values of dynamically sized types behind a pointer of some kind.

# `Sized` Trait

To work with DSTs, Rust provides the `Sized` trait to determine whether or not a type’s size is known at compile time. This trait is automatically implemented for everything whose size is known at compile time.

In addition, Rust implicitly adds a bound on `Sized` to every generic function. That is, a generic function definition like this:

```rust
fn generic<T>(t: T) {
    // --snip--
}
```

Which is acutally treated as the following:

```rust
fn generic<T: Sized>(t: T) {
    // --snip--
}
```

By default, generic functions will work only on types that have a known size at compile time. However, you can use the following special syntax to relax this restriction:

```rust
fn generic<T: ?Sized>(t: &T) {
    // --snip--
}
```

* A trait bound on `?Sized` means “`T` may or may not be `Sized`” and this notation overrides the default that generic types must have a known size at compile time. The `?Trait` syntax with this meaning is only available for `Sized`, not any other traits.
* Also note that we switched the type of the `t` parameter from `T` to `&T`. Because the type might not be `Sized`, we need to use it behind some kind of pointer. In this case, we’ve chosen a reference.

