# The Option Enum
This section explores a case study of `Option`, which is another enum defined by the standard library. The `Option` type encodes the very common scenario in which a value could be something or it could be nothing.

> For example, if you request the first of a list containing items, you would get a value. If you request the first item of an empty list, you would get nothing. Expressing this concept in terms of the type system means the compiler can check whether you’ve handled all the cases you should be handling; this functionality can prevent bugs that are extremely common in other programming languages.

# History of *Null*
> Programming language design is often thought of in terms of which features you include, but the features you exclude are important too. Rust doesn’t have the null feature that many other languages have. *Null* is a value that means there is no value there. In languages with null, variables can always be in one of two states: null or not-null.

> In his 2009 presentation “Null References: The Billion Dollar Mistake,” Tony Hoare, the inventor of null, has this to say:    
> > I call it my billion-dollar mistake. At that time, I was designing the first comprehensive type system for references in an object-oriented language. My goal was to ensure that all use of references should be absolutely safe, with checking performed automatically by the compiler. But I couldn’t resist the temptation to put in a null reference, simply because it was so easy to implement. This has led to innumerable errors, vulnerabilities, and system crashes, which have probably caused a billion dollars of pain and damage in the last forty years.

The problem with null values is that if you try to use a null value as a not-null value, you’ll get an error of some kind. Because this null or not-null property is pervasive, it’s extremely easy to make this kind of error.

However, the concept that null is trying to express is still a useful one: a null is a value that is currently invalid or absent for some reason.

# `Option` Enum
The problem isn’t really with the concept but with the particular implementation. As such, Rust does not have nulls, but it does have an enum that can encode the concept of a value being present or absent. This enum is `Option<T>` and it is defined by the standard library as follows:
```rust
enum Option<T> {
    None,
    Some(T),
}
```
> The `<T>` syntax is a feature of Rust we haven’t talked about yet. It’s a generic type parameter, and we’ll cover generics in more detail in later chapters.

* When we have a `Some` value, we know that a value is present and the value is held within the `Some`.
* When we have a `None` value, in some sense, it means the same thing as null: we don’t have a valid value.

Q: So why is having `Option<T>` any better than having *null*?
A: In short, because `Option<T>` and `T` (where `T` can be any type) are different types, the compiler won’t let us use an `Option<T>` value as if it were definitely a valid value. For example, this code won’t compile because it’s trying to add an `i8` to an `Option<i8>`:
```rust
let x: i8 = 5;
let y: Option<i8> = Some(5);
let sum = x + y;
```

> Eliminating the risk of incorrectly assuming a not-null value helps you to be more confident in your code. In order to have a value that can possibly be null, you must explicitly opt in by making the type of that value `Option<T>`. Then, when you use that value, you are required to explicitly handle the case when the value is null. Everywhere that a value has a type that isn’t an `Option<T>`, you can safely assume that the value isn’t null. This was a deliberate design decision for Rust to limit null’s pervasiveness and increase the safety of Rust code.
>
> In general, in order to use an `Option<T>` value, you want to have code that will handle each variant. You want some code that will run only when you have a `Some(T)` value, and this code is allowed to use the inner `T`. You want some other code to run if you have a `None` value, and that code doesn’t have a `T` value available. The `match` expression is a control flow construct that does just this when used with enums: it will run different code depending on which variant of the enum it has, and that code can use the data inside the matching value.