# Concise Control Flow with if let
The `if let` syntax lets you combine `if` and `let` into a less verbose way to handle values that match one pattern while ignoring the rest:
```rust
let config_max = Some(3u8);
match config_max {
    Some(max) => println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max),
    _ => (),
}
```
If the value is `Some`, we print out the value in the `Some` variant by binding the value to the variable `max` in the pattern. We don’t want to do anything with the `None` value. To satisfy the `match` expression, we have to add `_ => ()` after processing just one variant, which is annoying boilerplate code to add.

Instead, we could write this in a shorter way using `if let`. The following code behaves the same as the `match`:
```rust
let config_max = Some(3u8);
if let Some(max) = config_max {
    println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max);
}
```
The syntax `if let` takes a pattern and an expression separated by an equal sign. It works the same way as a `match`, where the expression is given to the `match` and the pattern is its first arm. In this case, the pattern is `Some(max)`, and the `max` binds to the value inside the `Some`. We can then use `max` in the body of the `if let` block in the same way as we used `max` in the corresponding `match` arm. The code in the `if let` block isn’t run if the value doesn’t match the pattern.

> Using `if let` means less typing, less indentation, and less boilerplate code. However, you lose the exhaustive checking that `match` enforces. Choosing between `match` and `if let` depends on what you’re doing in your particular situation and whether gaining conciseness is an appropriate trade-off for losing exhaustive checking.

> In other words, you can think of `if let` as syntax sugar for a `match` that runs code when the value matches one pattern and then ignores all other values.

# Include an `else`
We can include an `else` with an `if let`. The block of code that goes with the `else` is the same as the block of code that would go with the `_` case in the `match` expression that is equivalent to the `if let` and `else`.

The following `match` expression
```rust
match config_max {
    Some(max) => println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max),
    _ => println!("No maximum"),
}
```
Can be rewritten to
```rust
if let Some(max) = config_max {
    println!("The maximum is configured to be {}", max);
} else {
    println!("No maximum");
}
```

# Summary
We’ve now covered how to use enums to create custom types that can be one of a set of enumerated values. We’ve shown how the standard library’s `Option<T>` type helps you use the type system to prevent errors. When enum values have data inside them, you can use `match` or `if let` to extract and use those values, depending on how many cases you need to handle.