# Recoverable Errors with Result
Most errors aren’t serious enough to require the program to stop entirely. Sometimes, when a function fails, it’s for a reason that you can easily interpret and respond to. For example, if you try to open a file and that operation fails because the file doesn’t exist, you might want to create the file instead of terminating the process.

the `Result` enum is defined as having two variants, `Ok` and `Err`, as follows:
```rust
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```
What you need to know right now is that `T` represents the type of the value that will be returned in a success case within the `Ok` variant, and `E` represents the type of the error that will be returned in a failure case within the `Err` variant. Because `Result` has these generic type parameters, we can use the `Result` type and the functions defined on it in many different situations where the successful value and error value we want to return may differ.

Let’s call a function that returns a `Result` value because the function could fail:
```rust
use std::fs::File;
fn main() {
    let greeting_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");
}
```
In the case where `File::open` succeeds, the value in the variable `greeting_file_result` will be an instance of `Ok` that contains a file handle. In the case where it fails, the value in `greeting_file_result` will be an instance of `Err` that contains more information about the kind of error that happened.

One way to handle the Result using a basic tool, the `match` expression:
```rust
use std::fs::File;
fn main() {
    let greeting_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");
    let greeting_file = match greeting_file_result {
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(error) => panic!("Problem opening the file: {:?}", error),
    };
}
```

# Shortcuts for Panic on Error: `unwrap`
Using `match` works well enough, but it can be a bit verbose and doesn’t always communicate intent well. The `Result<T, E>` type has many helper methods defined on it to do various, more specific tasks.

The `unwrap` method is a shortcut method implemented just like the `match` expression we wrote. If the `Result` value is the `Ok` variant, `unwrap` will return the value inside the `Ok`. If the `Result` is the `Err` variant, `unwrap` will call the `panic!` macro for us:
```rust
use std::fs::File;
fn main() {
    let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt").unwrap();
}
```
# Shortcuts for Panic on Error: `expect`
Similarly, the `expect` method lets us also choose the `panic!` error message. Using `expect` instead of `unwrap` and providing good error messages can convey your intent and make tracking down the source of a panic easier. The syntax of `expect` looks like this:
```rust

fn main() {
    let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt")
        .expect("hello.txt should be included in this project");
}
```

> In production-quality code, most Rustaceans choose `expect` rather than `unwrap` and give more context about why the operation is expected to always succeed. That way, if your assumptions are ever proven wrong, you have more information to use in debugging.

# Propagating Errors
When a function’s implementation calls something that might fail, instead of handling the error within the function itself, you can return the error to the calling code so that it can decide what to do. This is known as `propagating` the error and gives more control to the calling code, where there might be more information or logic that dictates how the error should be handled than what you have available in the context of your code:
```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let username_file_result = File::open("hello.txt");

    let mut username_file = match username_file_result {
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    let mut username = String::new();
    match username_file.read_to_string(&mut username) {
        Ok(_) => Ok(username),
        Err(e) => Err(e),
    }
}
```

This pattern of propagating errors is so common in Rust that Rust provides the question mark operator `?` to make this easier.

# A Shortcut for Propagating Errors: the `?` Operator
```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let mut username_file = File::open("hello.txt")?;
    let mut username = String::new();
    username_file.read_to_string(&mut username)?;
    Ok(username)
}
```
The `?` placed after a `Result` value works as: If the value of the `Result` is an `Ok`, the value inside the `Ok` will get returned from this expression, and the program will continue. If the value is an `Err`, the `Err` will be returned from the whole function as if we had used the return keyword so the error value gets propagated to the calling code.

The `?` operator eliminates a lot of boilerplate and makes this function’s implementation simpler. We could even shorten this code further by chaining method calls immediately after the `?`:
```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::{self, Read};

fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
    let mut username = String::new();
    File::open("hello.txt")?.read_to_string(&mut username)?;
    Ok(username)
}
```

> There is an even shorter way to rewrite the above code:
> ```rust
> use std::fs;
> use std::io;
> 
> fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
>     fs::read_to_string("hello.txt")
> }
> ```