# Using Structs to Structure Related Data
A `struct`, or `structure`, is a custom data type that lets you package together and name multiple related values that make up a meaningful group. If you’re familiar with an object-oriented language, a struct is like an object’s data attributes. In this chapter, we’ll compare and contrast tuples with structs to build on what you already know and demonstrate when structs are a better way to group data.

We’ll demonstrate how to define and instantiate structs. We’ll discuss how to define associated functions, especially the kind of associated functions called `methods`, to specify behavior associated with a struct type. Structs and enums (next chapter) are the building blocks for creating new types in your program’s domain to take full advantage of Rust’s compile time type checking.

# Defining and Instantiating Structs
> Unlike with tuples, in a struct you’ll name each piece of data so it’s clear what the values mean. Adding these names means that structs are more flexible than tuples: you don’t have to rely on the order of the data to specify or access the values of an instance.

To define a `struct`, we enter the keyword struct and name the entire struct. A struct’s name should describe the significance of the pieces of data being grouped together. Then, inside curly brackets, we define the names and types of the pieces of data, which we call *fields*. For example:
```rust
struct User {
    active: bool,
    username: String,
    email: String,
    sign_in_count: u64,
}
```
To use a struct after we’ve defined it, we create an instance of that struct by specifying concrete values for each of the fields:
```rust
fn main() {
    let user1 = User {
        email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
        username: String::from("someusername123"),
        active: true,
        sign_in_count: 1,
    };
}
```
> We don’t have to specify the fields in the same order in which we declared them in the struct.

# Access Field In `Struct`
To get a specific value from a struct, we use dot notation:
```rust
let is_active = user1.active;
```
If the instance is mutable, we can change a value by using the dot notation and assigning into a particular field:
```rust
let mut user1 = User {
    email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
    username: String::from("someusername123"),
    active: true,
    sign_in_count: 1,
};

user1.email = String::from("anotheremail@example.com");
```
> Note that the entire instance must be mutable; Rust doesn’t allow us to mark only certain fields as mutable.

# Using the Field Init Shorthand
we can use the field init shorthand syntax to write a function `build_user` using *Field Init Shorthand*:
```rust
fn build_user(email: String, username: String) -> User {
    User {
        email,
        username,
        active: true,
        sign_in_count: 1,
    }
}
```

# Creating Instances With Struct Update Syntax
It’s often useful to create a new instance of a struct that includes most of the values from another instance, but changes some. You can do this using *struct update syntax*.

We set a new value for `email` for `user2` but otherwise use the same values from `user1`:
```rust
let user1 = User {
    email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
    username: String::from("someusername123"),
    active: true,
    sign_in_count: 1,
};

let user2 = User {
    email: String::from("another@example.com"),
    ..user1
};
```
The `..user1` must come last to specify that any remaining fields should get their values from the corresponding fields in `user1`, but we can choose to specify values for as many fields as we want in any order, regardless of the order of the fields in the struct’s definition.

> Note that the struct update syntax uses `=` like an assignment; this is because it moves the data. In this example, we can no longer use `user1` after creating `user2`.

# Tuple Structs
Rust also supports structs that look similar to tuples, called *tuple structs*. Tuple structs have the added meaning the struct name provides but don’t have names associated with their fields; rather, they just have the types of the fields.

> Tuple structs are useful when you want to give the whole tuple a name and make the tuple a different type from other tuples, and when naming each field as in a regular struct would be verbose or redundant.

To define a tuple struct, start with the `struct` keyword and the struct name followed by the types in the tuple. For example, here we define and use two tuple structs named `Color` and `Point`:
```rust
struct Color(i32, i32, i32);
struct Point(i32, i32, i32);

fn main() {
    let black = Color(0, 0, 0);
    let origin = Point(0, 0, 0);
}
```
> Note that the `black` and `origin` values are different types, because they’re instances of different tuple structs. Each struct you define is its own type, even though the fields within the struct might have the same types.

# Unit-Like Structs
You can also define structs that don’t have any fields! These are called *unit-like structs* because they behave similarly to `()`. 

> Unit-like structs can be useful when you need to implement a trait on some type but don’t have any data that you want to store in the type itself. We’ll discuss traits in later chapters.

Here’s an example of declaring and instantiating a unit struct named `AlwaysEqual`:
```rust
struct AlwaysEqual;

fn main() {
    let subject = AlwaysEqual;
}
```

# Ownership of Struct Data
from the previous `User` struct definition, we used the owned `String` type rather than the `&str` string slice type. This is a deliberate choice because we want each instance of this struct to own all of its data and for that data to be valid for as long as the entire struct is valid.

> It’s also possible for structs to store references to data owned by something else, but to do so requires the use of *lifetimes*, a Rust feature that we’ll discuss in later chapters. Lifetimes ensure that the data referenced by a struct is valid for as long as the struct is.