# Calling an Unsafe Function or Method

The second type of operation you can perform in an unsafe block is calling unsafe functions. Unsafe functions and methods look exactly like regular functions and methods, but they have an extra `unsafe` before the rest of the definition.

The `unsafe` keyword in this context indicates the function has requirements we need to uphold when we call this function, because Rust can’t guarantee we’ve met these requirements. By calling an unsafe function within an `unsafe` block, we’re saying that we’ve read this function’s documentation and take responsibility for upholding the function’s contracts:

```rust
fn main() {
    unsafe fn dangerous() {}
    unsafe {
        dangerous();
    }
}
```

* With the `unsafe` block, we’re asserting to Rust that we’ve read the function’s documentation, we understand how to use it properly, and we’ve verified that we’re fulfilling the contract of the function.

# Creating a Safe Abstraction over Unsafe Code

Just because a function contains unsafe code doesn’t mean we need to mark the entire function as unsafe. In fact, wrapping unsafe code in a safe function is a common abstraction.

let’s study the `split_at_mut` function from the standard library, which requires some unsafe code:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
    let r = &mut v[..];
    let (a, b) = r.split_at_mut(3);
    assert_eq!(a, &mut [1, 2, 3]);
    assert_eq!(b, &mut [4, 5, 6]);
}
```

We can’t implement this function using only safe Rust. An attempt might look something like:

```rust
fn split_at_mut(values: &mut [i32], mid: usize) -> (&mut [i32], &mut [i32]) {
    let len = values.len();
    assert!(mid <= len);
    (&mut values[..mid], &mut values[mid..]) // ❌ WON'T COMPILE
}
```

When we try to compile the code we will get an error:

```txt
$ cargo run
   Compiling unsafe-example v0.1.0 (file:///projects/unsafe-example)
error[E0499]: cannot borrow `*values` as mutable more than once at a time
 --> src/main.rs:6:31
  |
1 | fn split_at_mut(values: &mut [i32], mid: usize) -> (&mut [i32], &mut [i32]) {
  |                         - let's call the lifetime of this reference `'1`
...
6 |     (&mut values[..mid], &mut values[mid..])
  |     --------------------------^^^^^^--------
  |     |     |                   |
  |     |     |                   second mutable borrow occurs here
  |     |     first mutable borrow occurs here
  |     returning this value requires that `*values` is borrowed for `'1`
```

* Rust’s borrow checker can’t understand that we’re borrowing different parts of the slice; it only knows that we’re borrowing from the same slice twice. Borrowing different parts of a slice is fundamentally okay because the two slices aren’t overlapping, but Rust isn’t smart enough to know this. When we know code is okay, but Rust doesn’t, it’s time to reach for unsafe code.

The following code shows how to use an `unsafe` block, a raw pointer, and some calls to unsafe functions to make the implementation of `split_at_mut` work:

```rust
use std::slice;

fn split_at_mut(values: &mut [i32], mid: usize) -> (&mut [i32], &mut [i32]) {
    let len = values.len();
    let ptr = values.as_mut_ptr();
    assert!(mid <= len);
    unsafe {
        (
            slice::from_raw_parts_mut(ptr, mid),
            slice::from_raw_parts_mut(ptr.add(mid), len - mid),
        )
    }
}
```

* The function `slice::from_raw_parts_mut` is unsafe because it takes a raw pointer and must trust that this pointer is valid. The `add` method on raw pointers is also unsafe, because it must trust that the offset location is also a valid pointer.

* Note that we don’t need to mark the resulting `split_at_mut` function as `unsafe`, and we can call this function from safe Rust. We’ve created a safe abstraction to the unsafe code with an implementation of the function that uses `unsafe` code in a safe way, because it creates only valid pointers from the data this function has access to.

# Using `extern` Functions to Call External Code

Sometimes, your Rust code might need to interact with code written in another language. For this, Rust has the keyword `extern` that facilitates the creation and use of a ***Foreign Function Interface (FFI)***. An FFI is a way for a programming language to define functions and enable a different (foreign) programming language to call those functions:

```rust
extern "C" {
    fn abs(input: i32) -> i32;
}

fn main() {
    unsafe {
        println!("Absolute value of -3 according to C: {}", abs(-3));
    }
}
```

* Within the `extern "C"` block, we list the names and signatures of external functions from another language we want to call. The `"C"` part defines which *application binary interface (ABI)* the external function uses: the ABI defines how to call the function at the assembly level. The `"C"` ABI is the most common and follows the C programming language’s ABI.

> ##### Calling Rust Functions from Other Languages
>
> We can also use `extern` to create an interface that allows other languages to call Rust functions. Instead of creating a whole `extern` block, we add the `extern` keyword and specify the ABI to use just before the `fn` keyword for the relevant function.
>
> We also need to add a `#[no_mangle]` annotation to tell the Rust compiler not to mangle the name of this function. *Mangling* is when a compiler changes the name we’ve given a function to a different name that contains more information for other parts of the compilation process to consume but is less human readable.
>
> In the following example, we make the `call_from_c` function accessible from C code, after it’s compiled to a shared library and linked from C:
>
> ```rust
> #[no_mangle]
> pub extern "C" fn call_from_c() {
>     println!("Just called a Rust function from C!");
> }
> ```
>
> This usage of `extern` does not require `unsafe`.