# Declarative Macros with `macro_rules!` for General Metaprogramming

The most widely used form of macros in Rust is the ***declarative macro***. At their core, declarative macros allow you to write something similar to a Rust `match` expression.

> Similar to `match` expressions, macros also compare a value to patterns that are associated with particular code: in this situation, the value is the literal Rust source code passed to the macro; the patterns are compared with the structure of that source code; and the code associated with each pattern, when matched, replaces the code passed to the macro. **This all happens during compilation**.

The following shows a slightly simplified definition of the `vec!` macro:

```rust
#[macro_export]
macro_rules! vec {
    ( $( $x:expr ),* ) => {
        {
            let mut temp_vec = Vec::new();
            $(
                temp_vec.push($x);
            )*
            temp_vec
        }
    };
}
```

* The `#[macro_export]` annotation indicates that this macro should be made available whenever the crate in which the macro is defined is brought into scope. Without this annotation, the macro can’t be brought into scope.

* We then start the macro definition with `macro_rules!` and the name of the macro we’re defining *without* the exclamation mark.

* The structure in the `vec!` body is similar to the structure of a `match` expression. Here we have one arm with the pattern `( $( $x:expr ),* )`, followed by `=>` and the block of code associated with this pattern.

    * > Given that this is the only pattern in this macro, there is only one valid way to match; any other pattern will result in an error. More complex macros will have more than one arm.

* First, we use a set of parentheses to encompass the whole pattern. We use a dollar sign (`$`) to declare a variable in the macro system that will contain the Rust code matching the pattern. The dollar sign makes it clear this is a macro variable as opposed to a regular Rust variable.

* Next comes a set of parentheses that captures values that match the pattern within the parentheses for use in the replacement code. Within `$()` is `$x:expr`, which matches any Rust expression and gives the expression the name `$x`.

* The comma following `$()` indicates that a literal comma separator character could optionally appear after the code that matches the code in `$()`. The `*` specifies that the pattern matches zero or more of whatever precedes the `*`.

* Now let’s look at the pattern in the body of the code associated with this arm: `temp_vec.push()` within `$()*` is generated for each part that matches `$()` in the pattern zero or more times depending on how many times the pattern matches. The `$x` is replaced with each expression matched. When we call this macro with `vec![1, 2, 3];`, the code generated that replaces this macro call will be the following:

* ```rust
    {
        let mut temp_vec = Vec::new();
        temp_vec.push(1);
        temp_vec.push(2);
        temp_vec.push(3);
        temp_vec
    }
    ```

* 
