# Procedural Macros for Generating Code from Attributes

The second form of macros is the *procedural macro*, which acts more like a function (and is a type of procedure). 

Procedural macros accept some code as an input, operate on that code, and produce some code as an output rather than matching against patterns and replacing the code with other code as declarative macros do.

The three kinds of procedural macros are custom derive, attribute-like, and function-like, and all work in a similar fashion.

# The `proc_macro` Crate

Procedural macro crates almost always will link to the compiler-provided [`proc_macro` crate](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/proc_macro/index.html). The `proc_macro` crate provides types required for writing procedural macros and facilities to make it easier.

This crate primarily contains a [`TokenStream`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/proc_macro/struct.TokenStream.html) type. Procedural macros operate over *token streams* instead of AST nodes, which is a far more stable interface over time for both the compiler and for procedural macros to target.

A *token stream* is roughly equivalent to `Vec<TokenTree>` where a `TokenTree` can roughly be thought of as lexical token. For example `foo` is an `Ident` token, `.` is a `Punct` token, and `1.2` is a `Literal` token. The `TokenStream` type, unlike `Vec<TokenTree>`, is cheap to clone.

All tokens have an associated `Span`. A `Span` is an opaque value that cannot be modified but can be manufactured. `Span`s represent an extent of source code within a program and are primarily used for error reporting. While you cannot modify a `Span` itself, you can always change the `Span` *associated* with any token, such as through getting a `Span` from another token.

# `derive` Macro

***Derive macros*** define new inputs for the `derive` attribute.

Most people use the [syn](https://crates.io/crates/syn) and [quote](https://crates.io/crates/quote) crates to parse the incoming Rust code and then generate new code.

* The `syn` crate parses Rust code from a string into a data structure that we can perform operations on.
* The `quote` crate turns `syn` data structures back into Rust code.

## Example

Assume that we want to implement a trait `HelloMacro` that consiste a method that will print a message:

```rust
// src/lib.rs
pub trait HelloMacro {
    fn hello_macro();
}
```

Now, for every implementation of this trait, we want the message to contain the name of the target type, without using macros we might come up with the following:

```rust
// src/main.rs
use hello_macro::HelloMacro;

struct Pancakes;

impl HelloMacro for Pancakes {
    fn hello_macro() {
        println!("Hello, Macro! My name is Pancakes!");
    }
}

fn main() {
    Pancakes::hello_macro();
}
```

* However, they would need to write the implementation block for each type they wanted to use with `hello_macro`; we want to spare them from having to do this work.
* Additionally, we can’t yet provide the `hello_macro` function with default implementation that will print the name of the type the trait is implemented on: Rust doesn’t have reflection capabilities, so it can’t look up the type’s name at runtime. We need a macro to generate code at compile time.

To achieve the same behavior, we need to rewrite the `Cargo.toml` file first:

```toml
[lib]
proc-macro = true

[dependencies]
syn = "1.0"
quote = "1.0"
```

Then we can write our macro as follows:

```rust
use proc_macro::TokenStream;
use quote::quote;
use syn;

#[proc_macro_derive(HelloMacro)]
pub fn hello_macro_derive(input: TokenStream) -> TokenStream {
    // Construct a representation of Rust code as a syntax tree
    // that we can manipulate
    let ast = syn::parse(input).unwrap();

    // Build the trait implementation
    impl_hello_macro(&ast)
}

fn impl_hello_macro(ast: &syn::DeriveInput) -> TokenStream {
    let name = &ast.ident;
    let gen = quote! {
        impl HelloMacro for #name {
            fn hello_macro() {
                println!("Hello, Macro! My name is {}!", stringify!(#name));
            }
        }
    };
    gen.into()
}
```

* Notice that we’ve split the code into the `hello_macro_derive` function, which is responsible for parsing the `TokenStream`.

* the `impl_hello_macro` function, which is responsible for transforming the syntax tree: this makes writing a procedural macro more convenient.

* > The code in the outer function (`hello_macro_derive` in this case) will be the same for almost every procedural macro crate you see or create. The code you specify in the body of the inner function (`impl_hello_macro` in this case) will be different depending on your procedural macro’s purpose

* The `hello_macro_derive` function will be called when a user of our library specifies `#[derive(HelloMacro)]` on a type.

    * This is valid because we’ve annotated the `hello_macro_derive` function here with `proc_macro_derive` and specified the name `HelloMacro`, which matches our trait name; this is the convention most procedural macros follow.

* Inside `impl_hello_macro` function, the `quote!` macro lets us define the Rust code that we want to return.

    * > The `quote!` macro also provides some very cool templating mechanics: we can enter `#name`, and `quote!` will replace it with the value in the variable `name`. You can even do some repetition similar to the way regular macros work. Check out [the `quote` crate’s docs](https://docs.rs/quote) for a thorough introduction.

* The compiler expects something different to the direct result of the `quote!` macro’s execution, so we need to convert it to a `TokenStream`. We do this by calling the `into` method.

# Attribute-like Macro

**Attribute-like macros** are similar to custom derive macros, but instead of generating code for the `derive` attribute, they allow you to create new attributes.

* They’re also more flexible: `derive` only works for structs and enums; attributes can be applied to other items as well, such as functions.

Here’s an example of using an attribute-like macro: say you have an attribute named `route` that annotates functions when using a web application framework:

```rust
#[route(GET, "/")]
fn index() {}
```

This `#[route]` attribute would be defined by the framework as a procedural macro. The signature of the macro definition function would look like this:

```rust
#[proc_macro_attribute]
pub fn route(attr: TokenStream, item: TokenStream) -> TokenStream {
```

* Here, we have two parameters of type `TokenStream`:
    * The first is for the contents of the attribute: the `GET, "/"` part.
    * The second is the body of the item the attribute is attached to: in this case, `fn index() {}`.
* Other than that, attribute-like macros work the same way as custom derive macros: you create a crate with the `proc-macro` crate type and implement a function that generates the code you want!

# Function-like Macro

Function-like macros define macros that look like function calls. Similarly to `macro_rules!` macros, they’re more flexible than functions; for example, they can take an unknown number of arguments.

> `macro_rules!` macros can be defined *only* using the match-like syntax.

Function-like macros take a `TokenStream` parameter and their definition manipulates that `TokenStream` using Rust code as the other two types of procedural macros do.

An example of a function-like macro is an `sql!` macro that might be called like so:

```rust
let sql = sql!(SELECT * FROM posts WHERE id=1);
```

This macro would parse the SQL statement inside it and check that it’s syntactically correct, which is much more complex processing than a `macro_rules!` macro can do. The `sql!` macro would be defined like this:

```rust
#[proc_macro]
pub fn sql(input: TokenStream) -> TokenStream {
```

* This definition is similar to the custom derive macro’s signature: we receive the tokens that are inside the parentheses and return the code we wanted to generate.